A new product on the U.K. market this month offers a glimpse of how Britain’s second pandemic summer is going so far: A refuse removal company called Divert has started renting its plastic garbage cans for people to use as backyard plunge pools. The idea — that people will rent mini-dumpsters to enjoy the recently touted health benefits of cold water immersion — is ludicrous, of course, but it’s just a shade less ludicrous in 2021. With tight restrictions on international travel still in place, this will be a summer where normally travel-addicted Britons are being forced to stay in the country. As a result, domestic vacation accommodation is heavily booked and highly priced. Supply-chain woes are compounding the summer fun crisis, as there’s currently a shortage of purchasable outdoor paraphernalia like garden furniture and barbecue sets. Retailers have been depleted by resurgent demand, Brexit delays and the closure earlier this year of the Suez Canal. As the BBC has reported, securing basic items such as a gas canister for a camping stove has now turned into a treasure hunt, putting people under pressure to find ingenious alternatives. With indoor swimming pools mainly closed and outdoor ones overcrowded, people are preparing to either get creative or spend the summer stewing in frustration.  We consider all alternative uses for Wheelie Bins.  This was taken in the warehouse break room area on Wednesday! pic.twitter.com/LnxebqcJUF Summer improvisations like these stem from the restrictions the British government has placed on travel, keeping most people at home. While more than 75% of U.K. adults have been at least partially vaccinated, mass immunity is still a ways off, and the particularly contagious Delta variant is spreading. About 43% of the overall U.K. population has received both shots. Across Europe, the pandemic is still far from defeated. In Germany, the number of people who have received a single shot is still just 47%, while Spain is currently at 42% and Greece hovers around 40%. In a bid to slow the variants, the U.K. government is restricting non-essential travel to all but a small clutch of low-risk destinations, with countries being placed on red, amber or green lists. Arrivals from countries on the red list have to undergo an expensive, self-funded hotel quarantine, while arrivals from amber list countries — including most nations in Europe and North America — must quarantine at home for 10 days. Green list countries, with extremely low Covid-19 rates, are the only ones from which people can come to Britain without quarantining. None of those destinations make an easy vacation spot at the moment. Portugal, initially the easiest and most appealing choice on the green list, was reclassified as an amber list country on June 8, leaving the Portuguese government perplexed and many British visitors already in the country facing a quarantine they hadn’t planned for. Of the countries that remain, only Iceland and the British Overseas Territory of Gibraltar are within relatively short travel distance. Iceland, however, is only allowing in non-citizens who have been fully vaccinated or can prove they have contracted then recovered from Covid, which rules out most families with children and many young people. These proofs aren’t required for Gibraltar (linked to the U.K. by a few direct flights) but visitors would still have to quarantine when returning to Britain if they venture beyond the tiny 2.6-square-mile territory to cross the border into Spain, where beaches, bars and restaurants are better, cheaper and more plentiful. That leaves Israel, which merely requires a recent negative Covid test for entry, and a handful of more distant sites, like Australia and Singapore (which aren’t allowing international visitors). It’s no wonder most people are staying home, or hoping to score a last-minute booking if another country gets transferred to the green list. The reasons for the part-cancelation of Britain’s beloved vacation season are of course infinitely sadder and more alarming than people missing out on foreign beach time. Death rates are falling, but fears are brewing of a fourth wave hitting Europe in the autumn, and the planned removal of all Britain’s restrictions on social mixing on June 21 is now in question. While some have protested the ongoing health measures in increasingly unruly anti-lockdown demonstrations, most of the population appears resigned to their necessity. These travel restrictions have nonetheless induced a far greater behavioral shift in the U.K. than they might in North America. In 2019, U.K. residents made more than 93 million trips abroad — the same number of non-domestic trips that U.S. citizens took that year, despite having a population five times larger. That huge difference isn’t entirely a question of culture — it’s a lot easier and cheaper to reach a different country from most of the U.K. than from most of the U.S. — but it does suggest how much more of an impact travel bans are having on a lockdown-weary populace. With their annual escapes scuttled for a second year, it’s little wonder that some Britons feel like standing upright in an ice-filled trash receptacle is the most fun this season is likely to offer.