Asian stocks rose Friday after U.S. shares hit a record on a bipartisan $579 billion U.S. infrastructure deal that stoked economic optimism. The dollar retreated. Equities gained in Japan, China and Hong Kong. Australian shares weathered the imposition of virus lockdowns in parts of Sydney. European, S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100 contracts were in the green after both American indexes reached new peaks. Sectors seen as beneficiaries of the recovery from the pandemic, such as energy, led gains in U.S. hours, and banks rose in postmarket trading after clearing stress tests. President Joe Biden celebrated the bipartisan plan, which is expected to move through Congress alongside a separate bill that would spend trillions more on what he called “human infrastructure.” It’s not yet assured either measure will get enough wider lawmaker support given the political splits in the U.S. The benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury yield hovered around 1.50%. Investors took the latest comments from Federal Reserve officials in their stride, after the central bank reassured on supportive policy while signaling that the process of removing exceptional stimulus will be gradual. An MSCI Inc. gauge of global stocks is on course for its best week since April, underpinned by the economic reopening from the health crisis. Risks such as faster inflation, the prospect of tighter monetary policy and more infectious coronavirus variants have yet to sap sentiment materially. “With the recent Fed commentary, the market’s interpretation has been somewhat confusing,” with a flatter yield curve and more risk-on equities positioning, Catherine Yeung, investment director at Fidelity International, said on Bloomberg TV. “We’re probably in the phase where the Fed and the market itself is just waiting to gather more info about inflation, and whether it’s indeed transitory or more permanent.” West Texas Intermediate crude oil stayed above $73 a barrel. Traders are awaiting upcoming deliberations among OPEC+ producers that may lead to a supply hike. Bitcoin steadied from a swoon earlier in the week. Rep. John Garamendi, a California Democrat who is also a member of the House Infrastructure Committee, discusses the $579 billion infrastructure plan that has been negotiated for weeks between the White House and a group of senators. Daybreak: Australia (Source: Bloomberg) For more market commentary, follow the MLIV blog. Here are some events to watch this week: These are some of the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Nancy Moran