The U.K. removed Portugal from its so-called green list of countries residents can easily visit, according to the BBC, dealing a body blow to an airline industry crying out for a reopening of European travel this summer. Portugal was the only significant tourism destination that Britons were allowed to visit without having to quarantine upon return after the U.K.’s leisure-travel ban was lifted on May 17. The popular getaway in southern Europe reverts to amber, meaning travelers will have to quarantine on arrival in Britain, the BBC reported, without saying where it obtained the information. The Department for Transport is due to publish its three-week update of the travel list on Thursday. The BBC also said no countries are being added to the green list. Losing Portugal will be devastating for an airline industry that’s been leveled by the coronavirus pandemic. Carriers have pinned their hopes on a loosening of travel rules in the U.K. and Europe as vaccinations roll out, but the spread of new variants combined with a creeping rise in case loads have disrupted those plans. The government had signaled it would likely remain cautious. Shares of airlines focused on the U.K. sank, including Ryanair Holdings Plc, British Airways parent IAG SA and discounter EasyJet Plc. The Bloomberg EMEA Airlines Index lost 3.7% as of 1:52 p.m. in London. Airlines have added flights anticipating fewer restrictions Source: Bloomberg Note: Number of flights by originating country Adding Portugal to the amber list threatens to disrupt travel plans for thousands of people. It’s a popular summer destination in normal times, and many Brits own holiday or retirement homes in the Algarve region to the south. The influx of travelers intensified when the country was added to the green list last month, while other popular destinations like Spain and Greece were left off. Passengers entering the U.K. from Portugal will be forced to self-isolate for 10 days as of Tuesday morning, the BBC said. There’s also the risk that the surprise retreat will have a dampening effect on demand for air travel in general. There was an expectation that the initial green list would expand as Covid-19 rates decreased across the region. This has now been reversed, and consumers wary of a repeat of last summer, when rapidly changing rules led to chaos and fights over refunds. Ultimately many shied away from making plans at all.