Japan’s Supreme Court is set to rule Wednesday whether a law forcing married couples to have the same family name is constitutional, in the latest test of a family registration system in place since the 19th century. Three Tokyo couples who tried to submit marriage applications using separate surnames are claiming their inability to do so is a breach of their right to equality under the law enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution. The decision is expected around 3 p.m. The law dictating that a couple must take the same surname when they marry mainly affects women, who say it can create complications for their careers and promotes gender bias. Members of Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga’s conservative ruling party, including Gender Equality Minister Tamayo Marukawa, have backed the law, which they say supports family unity. Tamayo Marukawa, raises her hand to speak at the upper house of parliament in Tokyo on June 7. Photographer: Kiyoshi Ota/Bloomberg Technically, a man may take his wife’s family name, yet in practice only about 4% do so. While many women use their birth names as an “alias” at work, some say the dual identities can cause confusion and are an unnecessary burden. Former Yahoo Japan executive director Shin Murakami said he has suffered years of unpleasant experiences after taking his wife’s family name, from difficulties with signing contracts to overseas travel. That motivated him to join a group of business executives pressing for change. “If there are more options on offer, I think we’ll have a society where more people can be happy in their own way,” Murakami said in an email. “We should recognize the diversity that already exists in society.” Wednesday will mark the second time the Supreme Court rules on the issue, after it found in 2015 that married couples had no right to separate surnames. Ten of the fifteen judges said the current system was not a breach of the constitution and the court called for the issue to be debated in parliament. Public opinion has swung behind the change since then. A poll by the Nikkei newspaper in March found 67% of respondents were in favor of allowing couples the option of having separate names, by contrast with the 35% who favored the idea in a previous poll in 2015. The gap between the public and the views of some lawmakers echoes that seen on the issue of same-sex marriage, which is not recognized in Japan, although a court ruling earlier this year indicated that change may be on the horizon. Parliament also failed to pass a law promoting “understanding” of LGBT issues ahead of the Olympics, which had been promised by the ruling Liberal Democratic Party.