You’re on a roll with work, typing away on your laptop when—all of a sudden—the electricity goes out. What to do? The blackouts in Texas and Portland, Ore., last February were an extreme example of an issue that’s common and should be considered in any business continuity plan. We talked to power outage warriors for their go-to strategies: Juice up your phone. If your phone dies, all is lost. “I live in Lagos, Nigeria, where daily power outages are the norm,” says Omiete Charles-Davies, founder of One Doctor, a health tech startup. She keeps a palm-size supplementary battery, like the Anker PowerCore 10,000mAh power bank ($25), in her bag so she can top-up her phone wherever she goes. Plug in your gear. A small backup system, like the Anker PowerHouse II ($399), will keep your WiFi router running and charge up your laptop, tablet, and phone a handful of times. You can pair it with solar panels to keep it charged indefinitely—but remember that cloudy weather (or sundown) can derail this plan. Turn on your hot spot. “Mobile internet is key,” says Michael Jacob, co-founder of furnace-filter shop Filter King LLC. Check now—before you’re in trouble—to see whether you mobile data plan will bankrupt you if you use it for several days. You could also buy a dedicated hot-spot device, like Skyroam’s Solis X or Solis Lite ($179 or $119), which connect up to 10 devices, with day passes or per-gigabyte fees  ($9/day or $6/GB). Snag a backup battery. Hours pass, and power’s still out? That’s when you want a massive battery, such as the Jackery 1500 ($1,599), which will probably power your microwave, coffee maker, and refrigerator (though not simultaneously), plus all your work gear. Bonus: You can recharge it from your car or solar panels to keep you going. This beast is ideal if power might be out for a day or two or three, yet you haven’t thought ahead to. ... Install industrial backup. When power is out for extended periods, the simplest solution is a generator such as the Honda EU3000is Super Quiet inverter ($2,529), which will power office basics like an air conditioner, refrigerator, lights, and computers. The downsides: This requires fuel storage, as well as outdoor cords and placement at a safe distance away from the building. “With a generator, you can run business as usual,” says Jessica Glazer, founder and president of recruiting and résumé agency MindHR in blizzardy Montreal. “Have a generator and another one as a backup.” But be sure to check your zoning laws for rules on using generators. For a few thousand dollars more, you can get backup batteries strong enough to keep the whole house or office running. “There are times when the region’s electrical power goes out for hours and in some instances days, due to winter ice storms,” says Steven Hausman, a lecturer on emerging technologies who lives just outside Washington, D.C. He upgraded from his gasoline generator to a battery bank that gives him full backup power for at least a day, supplemented by solar panels and a small natural gas generator. Step 5: Get out of Dodge. Have a go-bag and a plan to evacuate if necessary. “Our doomsday plan is to relocate staff to hotels,” says Jacob of Filter King, who’s weathered his share of tropical storms in Miami. “We generally drive about three hours north to safer ground and get everyone back online.” Pro tip: “I highly recommend investing in battery-powered lights,” says Parmida Schahhosseini, founder of hair accessories brand Parmida Nouri, who worked through the recent storm outages in Texas. A $10 string of LED lights is ideal, because you can easily drape them where you need illumination. “They were a life saver.”Read more:  Four Ways to Keep Working From Home When the Boss Wants You Back