U.K. companies stepped up hiring as coronavirus lockdown rules eased, delivering the biggest surge in payrolls on record.The number of employees on company books surged 197,000 in May from April, the Office for National Statistics said Tuesday. In the three months through April, the jobless rate fell to 4.7%, the lowest since the summer of 2020, as the number of people in work rose by 113,000.The U.K. labor market is faring far better than had been feared, with government wage subsidies preserving the jobs of millions of workers idled during more than a year of restrictions that plunged the country into its deepest recession in three centuries. U.K. payrolls registered their biggest increase on record in May Source: Office for National Statistics  The economy is now recovering strongly as those curbs are lifted. In April, non-essential stores welcomed back customers and restaurants and cinemas followed suit in May, leading to a surge in demand for staff. Payrolls remain 553,000 below where they were in February 2020 before the pandemic hit Britain. “The reopening of the economy has injected momentum into the labor market, which should mean employment continues to recover over the summer despite the delay to the final stage of lockdown easing in England. Key to the outlook for the Bank of England will be how the jobs market responds to the ending of the furlough scheme in September.” Dan Hanson, Bloomberg Economics. Click for the full REACT. The question is how big a blow the labor market will suffer from a government decision to extend lockdown rules that it had planned to ease on June 21. On Monday, Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced that social-distancing rules will remain in place for an extra four weeks until July 19 due to a surge in cases of the highly transmissible Covid-19 variant first detected in India.That’s a setback for nightclubs, theaters, concert halls and sports stadiums that have been closed or operating under tight controls during the pandemic. Almost 3.5 million Britons remained on furlough as of the end of April. Government wage support is expected to limit the rise in unemployment Source: Bank of England Note: Furlough program was extended by five months to Sept. 30 in March budget The Bank of England expects unemployment to peak at 5.4%, implying that far fewer people than previously thought will lose their jobs when support for furloughed workers comes to end in September. That forecast was based on the economy fully reopening next week. The government yesterday pushed until the end of July the date when most Covid-19 restrictions are due to lapse. Long-term unemployment is rising despite the easing of restrictions Source: Office for National Statistics Note: Age 16 and over