India administered 8.62 million vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, a daily record for the nation. Singapore authorities identified two more coronavirus clusters in a large neighborhood outside the city center. In Japan, the Tokyo Olympics plans to cap spectators at 10,000 people per venue or 50% of venue capacity, whichever is smaller. Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte threatened to jail those who refuse Covid vaccines. The highly contagious delta variant of the coronavirus is gaining steam in undervaccinated pockets of the U.S., according to a study. Coupled with accelerating cases in the South, the finding casts a pall on the inoculation effort in the country even though 150 million Americans have been fully vaccinated. Hair salons and indoor dining services in Vietnam’s capital city of Hanoi are permitted to reopen from Tuesday, the municipal government said on its website. The easing of restrictions comes after Hanoi reported no new virus patients since June 20, according to health ministry data. The businesses must put in place social distancing practices, such as using no more than 50% of seating capacity and 20 customers at a time with required closing before 9 p.m., the government said. A vendor at a food stall in the old quarters of Hanoi on June 18. Photographer: Manan Vatsyayana/AFP/Getty Images If Philippine President Duterte threat to jail those refusing Covid-19 vaccines is implemented it could be among the most severe measures to boost inoculations in a nation where majority are unsure of or reject vaccines. “If you’re a person who’s not vaccinated and a potential carrier, to protect the people, I have to sequester you in jail,” Duterte said late Monday. Village leaders should keep a list of those who refused to be vaccinated, he said. Indonesia earlier this year moved to punish those who refuse shots with fines or delayed aid. Singaporean authorities found 13 new coronavirus cases locally, as the government widened mandatory testing in a large neighborhood outside the city center where a cluster has been expanding since mid-June. A mandatory Covid-19 test site set up at apublic housing estate in the Redhill area of Singapore, on June 21. Photographer: Wei Leng Tay/Bloomberg Singapore has been pursuing a strategy of ringfencing clusters with aggressive testing as the authorities remain cautious over the loosening of restrictions. The government has said vaccination rates are still not high enough to warrant a faster reopening in Singapore, although it has achieved a key threshold of inoculating more than half of its population with a first dose. India said it administered a record 8.5 million vaccine doses on Monday, the first day vaccines were available free to all adults. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the numbers were “gladdening” but the nation’s inoculation drive has a long way to go -- about 283 million doses have been given in India, enough to cover only about 10% of its population. A health worker administers a dose of the Bharat Biotech Ltd. Covaxin vaccine at a Covid-19 vaccination center in New Delhi on June 21. Photographer: Sumit Dayal/Bloomberg Covid-19 transmission is accelerating in several poorly vaccinated states, primarily in the South, and more young people are turning up at hospitals. The data present the clearest sign of a rebound in the U.S. in months. In Missouri, Arkansas and Utah, the seven-day average of hospital admissions with confirmed Covid-19 has increased more than 30% in the past two weeks, according to the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services. In Mississippi, the hospitalization rate is up 5% in the period. South Africa is planning to make vaccines locally using messenger RNA, the breakthrough technology of the global inoculation effort against Covid-19. The manufacturing will be conducted by the state-owned Biovac Institute, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the director-general of the World Health Organization, told reporters Monday. That will be part of a broader vaccine technology-transfer hub in the country, he said. The WHO is speaking to a number of drugmakers about establishing the hub, though the talks are so far mainly with “smaller companies,” said Soumya Swaminathan, WHO’s chief scientist. “We are having discussions with the larger companies with proven mRNA technology,” she added. The U.S. said 150 million Americans have been fully vaccinated, according to a statement on Twitter by Cyrus Shahpar, White House Covid data director. People walk on Fishermans Wharf in San Francisco, California, earlier in June. Photographer: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg Monday just in: +610K doses reported administered over yesterday’s total. As expected, lower reporting after holiday weekend. Just crossed 150M fully vaccinated in the US! The Canadian government announced a loosening of Covid-19 travel restrictions for fully vaccinated people amid warnings that a return to a completely open border will take awhile longer. Fully vaccinated Canadians and residents will exempt from the mandatory three-day hotel stay as well as a 14-day quarantine requirement on arrival to the country, Justin Trudeau’s government said in a statement on Monday. Travelers will still need to have tested negative for Covid-19 before their trip, and take a second test at the border. The move -- effective July 5 -- is a first, incremental step to ease restrictions amid mounting impatience for the government to reopen the border between the U.S. and Canada. A fuller reopening won’t happen until 75% of Canadians are fully vaccinated, Canada’s border chief said on Sunday. The world’s longest undefended border has been closed to most travel since March 2020. On Friday, the government extended the restrictions until at least July 21. German Health Minister Jens Spahn warned of the possibility of a fourth wave of the pandemic as the delta variant spreads, saying it’s important to remain cautious as the country plans for a potentially challenging autumn and winter. “As you can see in the U.K., there is a risk,” Spahn said in an online panel hosted by industry group BDI. “Just remember the figures they had just some weeks ago regarding vaccination as well as the infection rate, and actually how quickly that can change.” Numbered inoculation and registration booths at a Covid-19 vaccination center in Berlin, Germany, on June 11. Photographer: Krisztian Bocsi/Bloomberg Kenya will receive 358,000 AstraZeneca doses donated by Denmark on Monday to shore up depleting stocks for the second round of vaccinations, according to Willis Akhwale, chairman of the Covid-19 vaccine advisory task force. A total of 1.18 million vaccines have so far been administered across Kenya, but fewer than 200,000 people had received a second dose as at June 20, according to the Health Ministry. U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson said England is on course to be able to lift coronavirus restrictions as planned on July 19, despite the spread of the delta variant. But Johnson also warned that foreign travel is likely to continue to be disrupted this year, with delays and complications for travelers. WATCH: U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson said England is on course to be able to lift coronavirus restrictions as planned on July 19. (Source: Bloomberg) — With assistance by Aaron Clark