Most Asian stocks fell Friday after Wall Street sagged amid robust U.S. economic data that stoked concerns about a pullback in central bank stimulus. Treasury yields and the dollar held advances. Shares edged back in Japan, China and Hong Kong, but posted modest gains in Australia. S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100 futures slipped after the gauges fell overnight, though they came off lows on signs President Joe Biden may be willing to compromise on corporate taxes. Strong U.S. jobs data and record service-sector growth underscored the recovery from the pandemic. China’s markets are digesting Biden’s order amending a ban on U.S. investment in Chinese companies. The order named 59 firms with ties to China’s military or in the surveillance industry, including Huawei Technologies Co. Gold remained lower after coming under pressure as yields and the dollar pushed higher, while the rally in crude oil has stalled. Meme stocks including AMC Entertainment Holdings Inc. had another volatile U.S. session. Bitcoin fell after a cryptic Elon Musk tweet hinting at a split with the token. S&P 500's advance through May sends historical signal for further gains Source: Bloomberg Chart is based on S&P 500 performance since 1950. Global stocks are trading in tight ranges as traders weigh the economic recovery as well as risks from faster inflation. The monthly U.S. payrolls report Friday could be a source of volatility if the data deliver a surprise. St. Louis Fed President James Bullard said the labor market might be tighter than the current unemployment rate suggests. “With seemingly all systems go on the jobs front, the economy is flashing some very real signs that this isn’t just a comeback -- expansion mode could be on the horizon,” said Mike Loewengart, managing director of investment strategy at E*Trade Financial. “So what does that translate to? Likely more pressure on the Fed to make a move -- perhaps sooner than many thought from the outset.” Jeremy Siegel, finance professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, says there will always be “craziness” in markets but investors should keep their eyes on the main stock market, which is “perfectly fine.” He speaks on “Bloomberg Markets: The Close.” (Source: Bloomberg) For market commentary, follow the MLIV blog. The question of the day is whether the upcoming U.S. jobs report will shift taper talk. These are some of the main moves in markets: — With assistance by David Wilson