Here’s the latest news from the global pandemic. South African Health Minister Zweli Mkhize was so widely lauded for his tireless work in tackling the pandemic that he was touted as a possible successor to President Cyril Ramaphosa. Then things went horribly wrong. It emerged in February that two of Mkhize’s former aides, who worked for communications company Digital Vibes, had benefited from a lucrative health department tender. A probe showed the $11 million deal was irregular, and Mkhize said those responsible would be held accountable. He denied playing any role in the company’s appointment. Meanwhile, a report published last month by the Daily Maverick news website said Digital Vibes settled invoices for maintenance work at a property owned by Mkhize’s family trust and transferred at least $22,000 to a company owned by his son. Ramaphosa, who has made the fight against graft a top priority since taking office in 2018, has described the allegations against the minister as serious and disturbing. He’s pledged to take action once another probe by the nation’s Special Investigative Unit has been completed. “This matter is not going to be swept under the carpet and it will be dealt with it as it should,” the president told reporters last week. “It will be a transparent process.” A shakeup at the health ministry could hardly come at a worse time. Almost 1.7 million coronavirus infections have been confirmed in the country so far, the most in Africa, and new cases have surged over recent weeks. A government-led vaccination program is going far slower than hoped, with just 1.3 million doses administered so far in the nation of 60 million people and shots in short supply. But Mkhize’s days as health minister appear to be numbered. Two people familiar with the deliberations about the medical doctor’s future who spoke on condition of anonymity because they aren’t authorized to comment, said he’s considering resigning. His spokeswoman has gone to ground.—Mike Cohen We want to know what you need to know. So ask us. Each week we will select one or two commonly asked questions and put them to our network of experts so you and your families can stay safe—and informed. Get in touch here or via CovidQs@bloomberg.net.  U.K. Firms Fear Future Lockdowns as Cases Rise Progress risks being derailed by possibility of another nationwide lockdown. Post-Covid Clues in China’s Cautious Consumers Consumer recovery weaker than expected on lingering coronavirus worries. Japanese Resistance to Olympics Is Now Easing Athletes begin to arrive in the country, pace of vaccinations starts to pick up. Thais Speed Up Shots Before Phuket Reopens The country plans to inoculate 70% of residents ahead of 2022 reopening. Taiwan Factory Outbreak May Worsen Chip Woes Potential disruption to tech supply chain already struggling from shortages. Know someone else who would like this newsletter? Have them sign up here. Have any questions, concerns, or news tips on Covid-19 news? Get in touch or help us cover the story. Like this newsletter? Subscribe for unlimited access to trusted, data-based journalism in 120 countries around the world and gain expert analysis from exclusive daily newsletters, The Bloomberg Open and The Bloomberg Close.