We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. South African President Cyril Ramaphosa banned alcohol, outlawed public gatherings and closed schools to curb surging coronavirus infections. The country will move to alert level 4, the nation’s second-highest, from level 3 with effect from midnight Sunday and the restrictions will remain for 14 days, Ramaphosa said in a televised address to the nation. Other restrictions include limiting travel to and from Gauteng, the nation’s commercial hub that’s been hardest-hit by a third wave of Covid-19 cases. The tighter restrictions imperil South Africa’s recovery from its worst contraction in a century last year, when gross domestic product shrank 7%. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News this month forecast output may rebound faster than anticipated, with recurring lockdown measures one of the main risks to the outlook. “We are in the grip of a devastating wave that by all indications seems like it will be worse than all those that preceded it, its peak looks set to be higher than the previous waves,” Ramaphosa said. “The measures we are putting in place now are designed to allow as much economic activity to continue as possible while containing the spread of the virus.” South Africa is back on alert level 4 for the first time in more than a year Source: Presidency  Ramaphosa said the ban on alcohol sales, the fourth since the start of the pandemic last year, was necessary to ease pressure on hospitals brought by emergency incidents related to drinking. Previous prohibitions have curbed the domestic revenue of drinks makers including Distell Group Holdings Ltd., which is the subject of a possible takeover by Heineken NV. The Beer Association of South Africa said it’s seeking legal advice on the ban, which it said will be the “death knell” for businesses and jobs. “The previous three alcohol bans have devastated thousands of small businesses,” the association said in an emailed statement. “Many more businesses will now find themselves on the brink of closure.” South Africa reported more than 90,000 new Covid-19 cases in the week through Sunday -- the biggest increase since January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Infections are being driven by the Delta variant that has devastated India and dealt a setback in the U.K. South Africa’s situation is being exacerbated by a slow vaccination campaign, with almost 2.7 million of the nation’s 60 million people either fully or partially inoculated. Gauteng, a region which includes the capital of Pretoria and the commercial hub of Johannesburg, has borne the brunt of South Africa’s third wave of Covid-19 infections. Hospitals are at risk of reaching capacity within days. The province accounts for more than two-thirds of infections and has a new-case rate of 73 per 100,000 people, more than triple the national average of 23.2, according to National Institute for Communicable Diseases data. To contain the massive surge in infections, South Africa will be moving to Alert Level 4 for a period of 14 days. Additional restrictions will be in place from tomorrow, 28th June 2021.#StaySafe #CoronaVirusSA #Ramaphosa #Level4 #14Days pic.twitter.com/2XPY21cBgq — With assistance by Renee Bonorchis, and Rene Vollgraaff