Asian stocks climbed Thursday as traders took the latest Federal Reserve comments about the prospect of tapering stimulus in their stride. Treasuries yields held a decline. Shares rose in Japan, Australia and South Korea. U.S. contracts advanced after the S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100 posted a modest increase. Philadelphia Fed President Patrick Harker said it’s appropriate “to slowly, carefully move back” on bond purchases at the appropriate time. Ten-year U.S. Treasury yields dipped below 1.60%. Investors are also digesting President Joe Biden’s plans to amend a U.S. ban on investments in companies linked to China’s military, and looking ahead to Friday’s U.S. jobs report for the latest insight into the rebound from the pandemic and inflation risks. Oil retained gains on the prospect of a recovery in demand, a rally that’s bolstered commodity-linked currencies like the Canadian dollar and the Norwegian krone. Bitcoin traded at about $37,500, maintaining its advance this week after May’s cryptocurrency rout. Markets are grappling with a range of cross-currents, including the risk that inflation could prove sticky, the prospect of a gradual reduction in emergency stimulus and speculative fervor emerging again in so-called meme stocks like AMC Entertainment Holdings Inc. Global equities, meanwhile, are hovering at record levels after a powerful rally from pandemic lows. “It seems like they’re starting to lay the ground work for tapering,” Aaron Clark, portfolio manager at GW&K Investment Management, said of the Fed’s recent signaling. “So I think investors are just in a holding pattern right now.” Fed officials have also repeatedly said price pressures are likely transient and that policy makers will nurture the reopening from the health crisis. BlackRock Inc. Chief Executive Officer Larry Fink said the potential for a spike in inflation may be underestimated. The Fed’s Beige Book indicated the pace of the U.S. recovery picked up somewhat in the past two months, sparking price pressures as businesses contended with worker scarcity and rising costs. Meanwhile, the Fed said it plans to begin gradually selling a portfolio of corporate debt purchased through an emergency lending facility launched last year, as the Covid-19 pandemic was spreading panic through financial markets. Mitul Kotecha, chief emerging-market Asia and Europe strategist at TD Securities, discusses oil, rising inflation, the Chinese yuan and the dollar. Source: Bloomberg Here are key events to watch this week: These are some of the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Jennifer Bissell-Linsk