More than 500,000 residents of Sydney will go into lockdown for at least a week as Australia races to control an outbreak of the highly transmissible delta variant of the coronavirus. President Joe Biden warned of the risks posed by the delta variant as he prodded Americans to get vaccinated amid a decline in the pace of inoculations. India this week hit a single-day record by administering more than 8 million Covid-19 vaccinations -- but even this unprecedented pace may not be fast enough for a country just emerging from a devastating second wave to head off a third one, experts say. Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. said two unvaccinated children on the Adventure of the Seas turned up positive for Covid-19 following routine testing that’s required before returning home. In Mexico, the health regulator will allow use of the Pfizer BioNTech vaccine for adolescents. Child-care demands at home skyrocketed during the pandemic, but men and women did not split the burden equally, according to a study released Friday by the Center for Global Development. Globally, women took on 173 additional hours of unpaid child care last year, compared to 59 additional hours for men, the poverty non-profit said. The gap widened in low- and middle-income countries, where women cared for children for more than three times as many hours as men did. The study used figures from Unesco and the OECD to measure the number of children home from school and the average time men and women in various countries spent on unpaid childcare before the pandemic. In India, where school closures added 176 billion hours of child care, the study estimated women took on more than 10 times the burden men did. Hong Kong’s government is investigating a local Covid case from an unknown source that may involve a version of the delta strain, a Department of Health official said Thursday. The case is a 27-year-old man who worked as an airline ground crew staff member at Hong Kong International Airport but had no recent travel history, according to the official. His family members and close contacts have tested negative for now. Hong Kong also will tighten quarantine requirements for U.K. arrivals starting June 28, according to a government statement Thursday. The city will raise the U.K.’s Covid risk designation to “very high” from “high,” which means arrivals will be subject to a 21-day quarantine at designated hotels, regardless of their vaccination status. Japan will provide 1 million doses of the AstraZeneca Plc vaccine to each of Thailand, Indonesia, the Philippines and Malaysia from July 1, Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi said Friday. Taiwan and Vietnam, which already have received some shots from Japan, will each receive an additional 1 million doses, Motegi said. More than 500,000 Sydney residents will go into lockdown for at least a week as Australia races to control an outbreak of the delta variant. People who live or work in four of Sydney’s most populous areas will be allowed to leave home only for four specified essential reasons, New South Wales Premier Gladys Berejiklian told reporters Friday. Berejiklian previously had barred about 1 million of Sydney’s 6 million population from leaving the city. The new steps come as the outbreak has climbed to 65 cases, with 22 new locally acquired cases recorded since the previous day. People line up at a mobile Covid-19 testing clinic in Sydney on June 25. Photographer: Lisa Maree Williams/Getty Images Vietnamese Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh aims to have a domestic Covid-19 vaccine produced by June 2022 at the latest as the government ramps up its nationwide vaccination program, according to a post on the government website. The health ministry is helping local companies in talks with Russia about a technology transfer to help Vietnam produce the Sputnik V vaccine, the post said. The World Health Organization has pledged to send experts to Vietnam to aid with vaccine production, according to a separate post on the government website citing WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. Japanese Emperor Naruhito may have concerns the Olympics could cause coronavirus infections to rise, Kyodo News reported. The agency cited Yasuhiko Nishimura, head of the Imperial Household Agency, as telling reporters Thursday he believes the emperor is worried about whether next month’s Olympics could lead to an increase in Covid infections, given concerns voiced by the public. Emperor Naruhito. Photographer: Toru Hanai/Bloomberg Naruhito didn’t directly speak of the concerns, the Asahi newspaper quoted Nishimura as saying. Plans are being considered to have Naruhito speak at the opening ceremony, Kyodo said. Myanmar reported 787 new coronavirus cases Thursday, the highest daily spike since the country’s February coup, according to the Ministry of Health and Sports. The government has imposed a stay-at-home order in nine townships across the country so far, restricting movement of over 1.23 million people, with the country’s total caseload at more than 150,000 cases. Chile’s senate approved a measure extending the country’s state of catastrophe to Sept. 30, following approval from parliament’s lower house, effective from July 1. The step gives the government the ability to close borders and impose quarantines and curfews to fight Covid. The U.K. spent billions of pounds on rapid Covid-19 test kits but has no idea if most of them are being used, according to the National Audit Office. A total of 691 million tests had been sent to homes, workplaces, schools and care settings across England as of May 26, but results from only 14% were reported, the country’s spending watchdog said Friday. The government, which spent three billion pounds ($4.2 billion) buying about one billion rapid test kits through March, doesn’t know how many of the unregistered tests were used, it added. The findings are likely to fuel further criticism of Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s government, which has touted the importance of mass testing as crucial to a full reopening. A Covid-19 test kit collection and drop-off point London, on May 20. Photographer: Hollie Adams/Bloomberg Jakarta on Wednesday recorded its highest demand for burial services since the pandemic began, intensifying Indonesia’s battle against a more infectious strain of the coronavirus. Funeral services for Covid-19 related deaths in Indonesia’s capital jumped to 180, Governor Anies Baswedan tweeted. The city of 10 million is the country’s epicenter of the virus, with the highly contagious delta variant detected among the new cases, health ministry data show. Three public hospitals in Jakarta will convert beds and redeploy healthcare workers to focus on Covid patients, according to a Health Ministry briefing Thursday. A funeral at a cemetery for Covid-19 victims in Jakarta on June 21. Photographer: Bay Ismoyo/AFP/Getty Images Malaysia expects some companies will receive approval to bring in private vaccines from China by August, according to Science, Technology and Innovation Minister Khairy Jamaluddin. Those who wish to expedite their vaccination may purchase jabs through this private market, said Khairy in a briefing Thursday. Thailand’s drug regulator cleared Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine for local use, making it the sixth shot approved in the country, according to a government spokeswoman. The country earlier approved vaccines from Sinovac Biotech, AstraZeneca, Johnson & Johnson, Moderna, Sinopharm for local use. President Joe Biden warned of the risks posed by a highly transmissible and potentially deadlier coronavirus variant as he prodded Americans to get vaccinated amid a decline in the pace of inoculations. “This new dangerous variant continues to emerge,” Biden said in Raleigh, North Carolina, as he warned of the delta variant, first observed in India. “It’s now the most common variant in America. Unvaccinated people are incredibly vulnerable.” Joe Biden speaks with WakeMed vaccinators after visiting a mobile vaccination unit at the Green Road Community Center in Raleigh, North Carolina on June 24. Photographer: Mandel Ngan/AFP/Getty Images Biden spoke Thursday as part of his administration’s effort to re-ignite a U.S. vaccination campaign that is slowing to a crawl. The White House conceded this week that it missed a pair of upcoming goals – for 70% of U.S. adults to have at least one shot and for 160 million people to be fully vaccinated, by July 4. Both measures are on pace to hit a few weeks late. Roche’s Actemra received an emergency-use authorization from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of Covid-19 in some hospitalized patients. Actemra may be effective for patients who are receiving systemic corticosteroids and require supplemental oxygen, non-invasive or invasive mechanical ventilation, or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation, according to an FDA letter. Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. said two unvaccinated children on the Adventure of the Seas turned up positive for Covid-19 following routine testing that’s required before returning home. Both are under age 16 and were immediately quarantined, the cruise operator said Thursday on its website. One was asymptomatic and the other had mild symptoms, the company said. Cruise lines are poised to resume U.S. operations after a monthslong shutdown because of coronavirus. With a mix of vaccinated guests and youngsters who haven’t had inoculations, some positive test results are inevitable. India this week hit a single-day record by administering more than 8 million Covid-19 vaccinations -- but even this unprecedented pace may not be fast enough for a country just emerging from a devastating second wave to head off a third one, experts say. They also question whether this week’s push averaging about 4.6 million doses a day, up from about 3 million for most of the past month, can be sustained. A health worker administers a dose of the Bharat Biotech Ltd. Covaxin vaccine at a Covid-19 vaccination center in New Delhi, India on June 21. Photographer: Sumit Dayal/Bloomberg Despite halting all vaccine exports in April and benefiting from a huge vaccine-production industry, India has covered only 4% of its population, putting it far behind most of the West and China, which is deploying about 20 million doses a day. At this rate, some scientists say a third wave could arrive within months, driving fears the country may see a repeat of the recent nightmare of oxygen shortages and overwhelmed hospitals. German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron criticized Greece and other tourism-dependent countries for freely accepting visitors inoculated with less-effective Chinese and Russian vaccines, signaling the possibility of curbs on travel ahead of Europe’s peak tourist season. Souvenir stores in the Plaka tourist district in Athens, Greece, in April. Photographer: Ioana Epure/Bloomberg During a closed-door meeting of European Union leaders in Brussels, Merkel said EU countries such as Greece have welcomed travelers who got the Sputnik shot, even though it hasn’t been approved by EU regulators and it’s unclear whether it works against the more dangerous delta variant. These visitors can then freely move within the EU’s free-travel zone, Merkel told her colleagues, according to officials familiar with the conversation. The U.K. added Spain’s Balearic islands and Malta to its quarantine-free travel list and said rules will be relaxed for more countries in the summer for people who are fully vaccinated. The shift is a boost for airlines and the travel industry ahead of school holidays that begin in July. Bermuda, Madeira and a number of Caribbean destinations were also added to the list. A digital display showing departing flights in the departures hall in Terminal 5 at London Heathrow Airport in London, on May 17. Photographer: Jason Alden/Bloomberg The delta variant first identified in India is raging in rural western Colorado, which was largely spared in the early stages of the coronavirus pandemic, a state official said. More than 50% of new Colorado cases are believed to be due to the delta variant, Rachel Herlihy, state epidemiologist, said in a statement issued by the state emergency operations center. “We are taking extra precautions and turning to the CDC for additional support to make sure we know how and why the delta variant is spreading,” Herlihy said. Israelis can expect to start donning masks again and the country has put off reopening to foreign tourists after its bid to return to a post-Covid normal was hobbled by a surge in infections linked to the highly transmissible delta variant. New cases were down to the single digits in mid-June, but this week topped 100 for three straight days. Most new cases have been unvaccinated children and people returning from abroad. Some of the sick had been fully vaccinated with the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. Shoppers make their way through Carmel market in Tel Aviv, Israel, on Wednesday, June 2, 2021. Photographer: Kobi Wolf/Bloomberg Hungary, another vaccination front-runner, is going in the opposite direction. Authorities in the eastern European country will end a requirement to wear masks indoors once 5.5 million people have received at least one dose of the vaccine, Cabinet Minister Gergely Gulyas said. People will no longer be required to show vaccination certificates in restaurants, hotels and public baths, Gulyas said at a briefing in Budapest. He said Hungary will reach 5.5 million vaccinated by next week. Spaniards won’t need to wear masks outdoors from Saturday. — With assistance by Michael Arnold, and Tony Czuczka