In the early months of the pandemic, as shelter-in-place orders and economic shutdowns swept the U.S., urban transit agencies moved to cut back service as ridership plummeted. Yet millions of people — including and particularly essential workers — continued to rely on buses and subways, and still do today. While most systems gradually restored routes they eliminated last spring, service is still down compared to a year ago in major U.S. cities, according to a new data dashboard. And preexisting gaps in access for historically marginalized groups have not been closed. The Transit Equity Dashboard, created by the think tank TransitCenter, measures how well public transit connects riders to key destinations in the New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Washington, D.C., Philadelphia and the San Francisco Bay Area. Broken down across racial and socioeconomic categories, the numbers shed light on how Covid-19 has affected the usefulness of transit systems for different demographic groups, including essential workers and people living in poverty. Declines in service have persisted in L.A., San Francisco and D.C., with acute impacts on weeknight service and the number of transit-accessible jobs. Average number of trips available per hour, in selected cities Source: TransitCenter Equity Dashboard Notes: Average is for week starting. Dotted line means no data for the week. One clear trend is that, as of February, many systems were still running fewer trips than they were pre-pandemic. Service cuts did not persist everywhere — New York and Philadelphia were back at roughly pre-pandemic levels, while Chicago’s largest transit agency never cut service by much. But L.A., the Bay Area and Washington, D.C., saw lasting declines in the average number of trips per hour. The impact of that loss is also measurable in the number of jobs reachable within a 45-minute transit trip. In four out of six cities, that number fell between February 2020 and February 2021. Those shrinking opportunities fell evenly across most demographics. For example, over the course of the pandemic, the number of Washington, D.C., jobs accessible by transit within 45 minutes shifts in parallel for different racial groups, with no changes in rank. A similar pattern is seen in all six cities. At the same time, disparities between those groups largely did not improve. In D.C., white commuters were able to access more than 46% more jobs than Black or Latinx people in February 2021, roughly the same difference as in February 2020. With people of color overrepresented in essential industries such as food service, factory work and child care, that points to a mismatch between transit supply and demand. In part, that reflects a historic tendency among transit agencies to cater to white suburban riders for whom transit is a choice, prioritizing costlier rail investments over bus lines that provide essential transportation for people who have few or no alternatives. “Racial access gaps preexisted the pandemic, continued during the pandemic, and still exist today,” said Mary Buchanan, a researcher at TransitCenter. “By and large, the service cuts we saw did not change those gaps.” Number of jobs accessible by transit during peak weekday mornings Source: TransitCenter Equity Dashboard Note: Jobs accessible in 45 minutes. There was one broad commute category that appears to have been disproportionately affected by pandemic cuts: weeknights. In the Bay Area and Los Angeles, the number of jobs accessible between 10 p.m. and 12 a.m. crashed in April 2020 and did not rebound much. That signals that people who commute outside of normal rush hour peaks — a reality for many in the service industry — have fewer options for getting to and from work. Mapping changes in access also paints a more nuanced picture of how specific neighborhoods have been impacted. In San Francisco, service cuts in the urban core corresponded with a huge drop-off in white-collar downtown commuters. But they also affected people living in the nearby Tenderloin, a historically marginalized neighborhood with extreme levels of poverty. Not every neighborhood saw declines, however; in parts of Noe Valley, Bayview and the Mission, trips per hour increased. Average hourly trips declined in most of the city but increased in parts Source: TransitCenter Equity Dashboard  In Los Angeles, curtailed bus trips had more widespread impacts, with some of the most noticeable declines on the city’s west and south sides. Average trips per hour declined most in pockets of west and south sides Source: TransitCenter Equity Dashboard  The dashboard allows users to track and download a wealth of data for every month from February 2020 to February 2021, such as the number of jobs reachable by transit in a particular time frame, how long it takes to travel to those jobs and other amenities, and how often buses and trains arrive. Additional months will be added quarterly and Boston will be added as a seventh city, according to Buchanan. The tool was designed to expand on traditional measures of transit service, which fail to capture how well that service meets rider needs, said Alex Karner, a community and regional planning professor at the University of Texas at Austin who helped oversee the project. For example, the Federal Transit Administration collects monthly data on the number of miles and hours that transit agencies operate passenger service. While those numbers can show changes in service levels, they don’t say much about the consequences of cuts on riders’ ability to get to a grocery store or the doctor, or how they might fall disproportionately on certain groups. That was something researchers already understood. But when Covid-19 hit, stories and photos of people of color heading to work on packed buses and trains — while millions of white-collar workers telecommuted from home — underscored the differences in need that these systems serve or fail to serve. Now, U.S. transit ridership has returned to about 50% of pre-pandemic levels, while vehicle travel has almost fully rebounded. As billions of dollars in federal relief funds flow to metropolitan areas, transit agencies are making decisions about how, and where, to restore service. Many cities have plans to continue reviving lost bus routes in the coming months: For example, in August, the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency expects to bring back more than a dozen bus routes that have been suspended since the start of Covid-19, with a goal of bringing 98% of city residents within a quarter of a mile of a stop. Los Angeles Metro expects to restore bus routes to pre-pandemic levels by fall. “I don’t think that raw numbers are indicative of the quality of service during the pandemic,” said Conan Cheung, senior executive officer of service development, scheduling & analysis for L.A. Metro. He stressed that the agency also added service in off-peak hours and to areas with sustained ridership during Covid-19. “It’s about being flexible and strategic as we build back ridership.” But that hasn’t reassured remaining L.A. riders who fear a permanent loss of their transportation lifelines. As large portions of the workforce continue to telework, “we can expect that commute and travel patterns will be different for a long time,” Karner said. “Agencies should focus on people who continue to use transit to make systems that match their needs. That will be the key to an equitable recovery.” — With assistance by Marie Patino, and Jeremy Cf Lin