We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. China has authorized the emergency use of Sinovac’s coronavirus vaccine for children aged between 3 and 17, Sinovac Chairman Yin Weidong told China Central Television. Hawaii will lift inter-island travel restrictions starting June 15, according to its governor. The Japanese government is considering providing Vietnam with Covid-19 vaccines, public broadcaster NHK reported. Australia’s Victoria state recorded five new locally-acquired coronavirus cases as officials attempt to combat an outbreak that’s put Melbourne into a second week of lockdown. New Jersey ended its 15-month public health emergency in what Governor Phil Murphy called a “decisive step on the path toward normalcy.” The U.S. is sticking with plans to increase global vaccine dose donations to 80 million after an initial 25 million announced this week, according to the State Department’s Covid response coordinator. Key Developments: Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Type CVID <GO> on the terminal for global data on cases and deaths. China has authorized the emergency use of Sinovac’s coronavirus vaccine for children aged between 3 and 17, Sinovac Chairman Yin Weidong told China Central Television. Phase I and II research proved the vaccine is as safe and efficient for children as it is for adults, Yin told CCTV. When the vaccine will be put into use remains to be decided, he added. Hawaii will lift inter-island travel restrictions starting June 15, Governor David Ige said. More than half of the state is fully vaccinated, he said. When the inoculation rate reaches 60%, the state will drop the quarantine requirement for vaccinated travelers within the U.S. At 70%, all restrictions will be lifted, he said. People visit a beach in Kihei, Maui County in Hawaii. Photographer: Mia Shimabuku/Bloomberg China’s Guangdong Province reported 11 new local cases Friday, including 3 asymptomatic infections. The local government has issued stay-at-home orders and mass testing for affected neighborhoods in recent weeks as new cases surfaced in late May. The cluster has grown to over 100 cases in a province of more than 100 million people. Johnson & Johnson representatives said on Friday they will study the possibility of transferring Covid-19 vaccine production technology to Vietnam following the country’s request, according to the government’s website. The company, which plans to register its Covid-19 vaccine in Vietnam, said it will try to speed up its vaccine supply process via the Covax facility. Meanwhile, the number of virus cases detected in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam’s fourth worst virus-hit location, has slowed, said its health department director, according to newspaper Tuoi Tre. The city has recorded a daily average of 31 cases in June compared with more than 50 cases a day in May. A street vendor sells face shields in Hanoi on June 3. Photographer: Nhac Nguyen/AFP/Getty Images Australia’s Victoria state recorded five new locally-acquired coronavirus cases as officials attempt to combat an outbreak that’s put Melbourne into a second week of lockdown. In the past 24 hours to midnight, authorities also detected one new infection from overseas, bringing the state’s total active cases to 78, the Victorian government said on Twitter Saturday. Officials on Wednesday extended Melbourne’s lockdown for a further seven days, while restrictions in regional areas of Victoria were eased on Friday. The Japanese government is planning to provide Covid-19 vaccines to Vietnam in response to a request from the Southeast Asian nation, public broadcaster NHK reported Saturday, without attribution. The government aims to dispatch the vaccines as soon as this month, the report said, adding that the provision would be made outside the Covax initiative, the World Health Organization-backed effort to buy and distribute vaccines to low- and middle-income nations. Amazon.com Services LLC has no obligation to pay fulfillment center workers for time spent undergoing mandatory Covid-19 screenings, which benefits the public in general, the company said in a motion to dismiss a would-be class action filed in the Eastern District of California. The required screenings, conducted in accordance with government regulations and guidance—not just for employees but for all visitors—aren’t compensable “work” under the Fair Labor Standards Act because they aren’t primarily for Amazon’s benefit, the Thursday motion says. According to Amazon, the screenings benefit everyone, and its benefit is merely incidental. The U.S. government plans to provide more vaccine donations in the months ahead and is counting on the authorization of AstraZeneca Plc doses that are stuck in a safety review, a State Department official said. A nurse places a syringes containing doses of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine on a tray. Photographer: Andre Malerba/Bloomberg Distribution of an initial 25 million doses worldwide is based on maximizing global coverage, addressing surges and heading off others, and responding to requests from abroad, Gayle Smith, the State Department’s coordinator for global Covid response and health security, told reporters Friday. Most of the Covid restrictions in California will be lifted by June 15, though there are no plans to lift the state of emergency immediately, Governor Gavin Newsom said. More than 70% of California’s adult population have received at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine, he said, as the state prepares to fully reopen in the middle of June. ‘This disease has not been extinguished, it’s not vanished, it’s not taking the summer months off,” Newsom said. Face covering sign displayed at the Santa Monica Pier, in Santa Monica, California on May 31. Photographer: David McNew/AFP/Getty Images Some restrictions may stay after mid-June with variables like the emergence of new strains and the pace of vaccinations, he said. “Guidelines are evolving, it’s an interim process and will continue to evolve on the basis of this disease, on the basis of external realities and pressures,” he added. Mexico City is reopening schools, convention centers and concert halls this month as Covid-19 cases and deaths reached their lowest levels in over a year. Soccer stadiums and movie theaters will be able to fill half their seats and gyms will hold classes, in a gradual return over the course of this month. Surrounding the capital, Mexico state, the nation’s most populous, has also reduced its Covid restrictions to the lowest level, or “code green.” Seychelles, where cases have surged despite the country’s world-leading share of vaccinated residents, expects to know the results of analysis of virus samples sent to a Kenyan institute in about two weeks. A World Health Organization team has also been working with the island nation of 98,000’s health ministry for the last few weeks, Public Health Commissioner Jude Gedeon said. Almost one-third of adolescents hospitalized with Covid-19 in the U.S. ended up in intensive care units in the first quarter, and 5% needed machines to help them breathe, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said in a report. CDC Director Rochelle Walensky said she’s “deeply concerned” by Friday’s data and encouraged adolescents to continue to wear masks until they’re fully vaccinated. Russia revised its Covid-19 death toll for April to 20,323, an increase of 80% from early official reports, compared with 24,042 in March, according to the Federal Statistics Service. The data include people who were infected with the virus when it was not regarded as the cause of death. President Vladimir Putin’s appeals for the public to protect against the virus using domestically-developed vaccines are meeting widespread skepticism. More than 270,000 people have died of the disease in Russia since the virus emerged. Governor Phil Murphy signed legislation to end New Jersey’s 15-month public health emergency, affirming the lifting of most major restrictions that included indoor masking, social distancing and crowd limits. It’s “a clear and decisive step on the path toward normalcy,” Murphy said in a statement. Businesses, including retail shops, still may require patrons to follow masking and other virus-safety protocols, and precautions remain in places including public transportation, hospitals and schools. The law also stipulates that the governor will continue to oversee the pandemic response, including vaccination. It delayed until Jan. 1 the removal of renters and property homeowners subject to eviction or foreclosure proceedings. Carlyle Group Inc., a private-equity firm that oversees $260 billion of assets, and Warburg Pincus, with $60 billion, have told U.S. employees they’ll need Covid-19 vaccinations to return to the office in September, according to people familiar with the plans. They’re among the first financial-services companies to demand that employees get vaccinated in order to work in the office. Namibia reported a record 717 new cases in a day and Health Minister Kalumbi Shangula said hospitalizations and deaths have risen sharply. The surge “is an indication that the public is not strictly following the Covid-19 infection prevention and control measures,” Shangula said Friday. The country’s supply of medical oxygen is under pressure, according to the Health Ministry. — With assistance by Tony Czuczka