When the Covid-19 pandemic hit New York last year, Mayan Rajendran found himself making daily trips to his corner deli in Chelsea for coffee. Now, he’s spending even more time there — or more specifically, at the vacant flower stand next door — where he sells his own line of clothing and other accessories. The Eighth Avenue pop-up, again&again, is part of a growing trend of temporary shops, with merchants around the country looking to “test the waters of retail” as the world continues to open up following a 44% increase in U.S. e-commerce sales in 2020. A drop in New York City retail rents has also made it easier for new businesses looking for a storefront. “Especially during the pandemic, getting to know my neighbors, I fell in love with the city again, and so that's where this notion of ‘I love New York again and again’ came from,” Rajendran said of the shop’s name. “It has been so nice to stay in one place and absorb my neighborhood and meet people.” Rajendran’s foray into brick-and-mortar retail began a month into the pandemic, when the owner of Adam’s Market Place, Bashir Alkandi, began selling hats designed by Rajendran in his deli. “We did it because he is a friend of ours, and if we can help him, that's my intention,” Alkandi said. When the florist renting space from Alkandi had to close during the pandemic, Rajendran saw an opportunity. On June 5, he opened the again&again pop-up, giving it the same name as the creative agency he runs as his day job. In addition to reutilizing the space of the former flower stand, Rajendran repurposes South Indian fabrics to make much of the clothing, which is then manufactured in the Garment District. “Starting this brand has really created a great relationship between the female figures in my family and I,” he said. “My mom and my aunts have been donating all their saris to me, and I’ve been using that in my design.” Again&again, which is open only on Saturdays and Sundays from 1 p.m. to 7 p.m., also has an online presence, and so does Adam’s Market Place — a crucial lifeline for the food service industry in lockdown. Yet for Rajendran, who hopes to eventually open a permanent shop, there’s something special about being in person. “A pop-up was the last thing I thought I'd be doing post-pandemic; I didn't know which way my business was going to go, everything was in flux, but I'm so happy that I did it,” he said. “You can make all this stuff in your apartment, but until you give it life in the real world, it just doesn't exist to anyone. So for me, it's been really nice just to see people trying stuff on and understanding what it's about.”