The city of Minneapolis took steps to end the occupation of George Floyd Square early Thursday morning, moving the concrete barriers it placed around the intersection where Floyd was killed a little over a year ago, and setting off the possibility of a clash between city authorities and those occupying the space. Just last week, to honor the anniversary of Floyd’s death, people from around the country filled the intersection of East 38th Street and Chicago Avenue, which has been closed off to cars and operated as both a memorial and a semi-autonomous zone since Floyd’s killing in May 2020. A debate over its future as a public space was  well underway, and despite Mayor Jacob Frey’s desire to reopen it, the city had expressed a willingness to collaborate with the community on a measured path forward. Read More: Who decides the future of George Floyd Square?However, after rumblings that the city would be taking action in the square this week, workers showed up before sunrise Thursday in yellow vests and hard hats to open the intersection up to traffic. There was no visible police presence inside the square, and no violence or arrests during the process, but the abrupt nature of the city’s action and lack of widespread community engagement incensed residents like Julia Eagles, who has lived blocks from the square for a decade.  “People will continue to show up today,” Eagles said. “As news spreads of this I think more and more people will come and continue to hold space … I hope that the city doesn’t choose to use force or escalate things.” The streets remained full of people on Thursday and vehicles were not passing through the intersection. Activists set up makeshift barriers made of dining room tables, buckets, household objects, orange plastic fencing, and parked cars to block the road. Yellow traffic bollards and concrete pillars erected by the city were set up to preserve the memorial to Floyd in front of Cup Foods. Frey, along with City Council Vice President Andrea Jenkins and City Council Member Alondra Cano, said in a statement that the city played a supporting role in Thursday’s move to open the square, and that the initiative itself was led by Agape, a group that has been working with the city to do violence interruption work in the square. “They came to us with a plan and a vision,” said Frey in a Thursday press conference. “Obviously that plan and vision required assistance and help from a number of different departments throughout the city,” including the department of public works and the police department. Junita Flowers, owner of Junita’s Jar, a cookie company in the square, said she was only made aware of the city’s action on Thursday morning when she got a text message from her landlord. A woman who answered the phone at Axis, a home care PCA agency across from Cup Foods, said she had “no knowledge” that a removal was planned until coming into work today. Conflict over the future of the square had been brewing for months, and in a video shared on TikTok and Instagram earlier this week, George Floyd Square organizer Marcia Howard said she heard “rumors that the city would come and attempt to remove or ‘clean up’ or somehow desecrate the memorial.” On Thursday morning, she posted again, showing large vehicles arriving and officials descending on the intersection before sunrise. “They’re coming,” she said. Howard is part of a group occupying George Floyd Square, sometimes called the “No Justice, No Streets” coalition. Together with other community members, they developed a list of 24 demands for justice that they have called on the city to meet before activists agree to leave the space. Although some actions have been taken, like the prosecution and trial of Derek Chauvin, many others have not, from accountability for past police killings, to spending $400,000 to create job opportunities for young people in the neighborhood. Three more officers involved with Floyd’s murder have trials scheduled for August, and activists have asked for the square to be open at least until they are completed. The question of reopening the square has divided the neighborhood. The city conducted a poll of 929 of the more than 30,000 city residents who live within a mile of the square, finding that 65% wanted it open to traffic. Another quarter of respondents pushed for the city to address demands for justice first. Some business owners have complained of reduced foot traffic and an increase in crime in the area. Frey, who is up for reelection this fall, has sought to tie the square to an increase in crime in the city and cast its reopening as part of a broader public safety push. Minneapolis, like other large cities across the country, has seen an increase in homicides, as well as robberies and shootings. The square and the surrounding neighborhoods have seen a slightly higher increase in gunshot victims year over year compared to the rest of the city, 133%, according to a police department database.In an April press conference, Frey said the square would be reopened in part to allow for a rapid bus line to run through it that would serve the community. At Thursday’s press conference, the mayor added that he wanted gathering to continue in the square in some form. It’s not clear how long the city or its beleaguered police department will tolerate the continued occupation of the streets now that the barriers have been removed. But there was also no sign that activists and locals will stop their own efforts to keep cars off the intersection. “It's really easy to demonize what’s going on there or to make it seem worse than it actually is,” said Pouya Najmaie, referring to reports of crime in the area. “I think it’s actually a pretty amazing place.” Najmaie, a founding member of a neighborhood patrol group called the Powderhorn Safety Collective, wants the intersection closed to cars permanently. Part of the city’s resistance to keeping the square going, he believes, is that it would set a precedent for more street occupations. “I think the city sees it as, if we do this, we’re going to be doing this more, and maybe have to actually go after some reform.” In the surrounding neighborhoods, the square was seen by many as a reminder of the wound left by Floyd’s death, and the work Minneapolis still has to do to reckon with racism and bring accountability to law enforcement. “I was traumatized by the reopening of the street at George Floyd Square. ...  No one told me or the community,” said Angela Harrelson, who is Floyd’s aunt and the co-chair of the board of the George Floyd Global Memorial, in a statement. “But one thing I will not do even though they opened the street: I will never drive my car down the street where my nephew was killed, knowing that he had cried out for his mama.”