The City of London may remain a ghost town for a little longer yet. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Deutsche Bank AG have told staff that plans for a staged return to their U.K. offices are being delayed after Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced an extension of pandemic restrictions until July 19, according to people familiar with the matter. The lenders had previously told U.K. staff they would be encouraging more staff to return from June 21, which the U.K. government had said in February would be the earliest time by which all lockdown restrictions would be lifted. That timeframe has now been pushed back to July 19 or whenever the government decides to remove all legal limits on social contact although workers with business or personal reasons to come into the office can still do so, the people said. Barry Ritholtz, a Bloomberg Opinion columnist, talks about offices reopening for workers. Source: Bloomberg) The delays means that with the summer holiday season approaching it is possible that early September may be the first test of any widespread return to the office in the City of London. The holdup is a blow for the financial center’s struggling businesses that used to serve half-a-million commuters each day. The influx has been a fraction of that for more than a year now and the pandemic-induced transition to remote work has led some to question the future of financial centers and the urban economies they underpin. Read more about the U.K. return to the office Foot traffic levels in the main London offices of Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan and Morgan Stanley, which have a substantial proportion of traders and investment bankers among their headcount, were estimated on average to be about a fifth of the pre-pandemic norm as of May 24, according to Orbital’s analysis, which monitors activity levels through satellites and mobile phone data. Traders and investment bankers are most likely to have returned to the office Source: Orbital Insight Note: Foot traffic analysis is based on a representative sample of anonymized cell phone data compared to a baseline derived from the average over February 2020. British banks comprise the headquarters of Barclays, HSBC and Standard Chartered. U.S. banks comprises the main London buildings of Bank of America, Citigroup, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan and Morgan Stanley Traffic at British banks like HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard Chartered Plc, whose buildings have more staff focused on retail operations and head office activities, was less than half that level, according to Orbital. Standard Chartered has moved to a flexible working model while HSBC has said it is looking to cut office space by 40% in the long term. Retail-focused NatWest Group Plc said it expected just 13% of its staff to work mostly from the office after the pandemic. WATCH: U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced an extension of pandemic restrictions until July 19. Source: Bloomberg Read more about the City of London’s return to the office Even for those firms still betting on the office environment, any return to the office was set to be slow and uneven and June 21 wasn’t going to mark a wholesale return to normal. At JPMorgan, for instance, it was the date from which a wider selection of teams could gradually bring people back while a continuing 50% limit on building capacity means rotating staff into the office is expected to be the norm for the foreseeable future. That remains the case for the proposed July 19 return.