The growing U.S. affordable housing crisis, crumbling infrastructure and the fight for racial equity have focused renewed attention on the need to revitalize blighted, inner-city neighborhoods. Around the country, unprecedented cycles of gentrification are pushing poor Black and minority residents out of their neighborhoods and exacerbating racial divides. Private investors and public leaders alike see opportunities for new thinking and bold action. But a concerning conventional wisdom dominates the thinking. Simply put: Too many view these problems as market-driven and requiring the attention of wealthy investors. Proponents of this thinking span racial and political divides. The federal Opportunity Zone program, created by President Donald Trump, rewards developers who invest in poor areas with generous tax cuts. Hip-hop artists Jay-Z (Shawn Carter) and the late Nipsey Hussle (Ermias Asghedom) have urged Black investors to buy property in Black neighborhoods to prevent gentrification. Their “Buy the Block” mantra has inspired Black investors around the country, including some very promising Black-led investor initiatives. Private investment is critical to improving disinvested neighborhoods, but it comes with a risk: Most of the wealth accumulates with those who already have it. Public institutional leadership and direct public investment is necessary to expand affordable housing or small minority business growth. This is a central insight of Black Lives Matter activism and what community development professionals have been preaching for decades. A recent University of California Berkeley study confirms what many have suspected: The Opportunity Zone program has failed to stimulate meaningful investments in poor minority neighborhoods, and most of the benefits have gone to areas that would have likely improved without the tax break. President Joe Biden has vowed to improve the program. But if we want to revitalize poor, minority neighborhoods in ways that benefit the people who live there, we cannot rely only on tax credits for the wealthy or even Black entrepreneurship. We need direct public investment by local public institutions. As the head of Build Baton Rouge, our city’s redevelopment authority and land bank, I know well the challenges to achieving equitable development in our city’s poor, blighted Black and brown neighborhoods. Funding for equitable development efforts is scarce and putting viable projects together can take years. Moreover, one project is not enough to turn around a neighborhood that has been systemically neglected over decades. Equity requires that developers have a robust, ongoing engagement with people who live in the most disinvested areas. Public entities are better at ensuring that happens. This is especially true in mid-sized cities that haven’t experienced the economic and demographic changes that lead to gentrification and displacement in many large markets. Many mid-sized cities face a “tale of two cities” problem where there are stark, seemingly irreparable racial and resource disparities between one side of a city and the other. It is typically characterized by poor, Black neighborhoods that are locked out of the city’s growth and expansion. In the absence of market forces sparking investment in these areas, public stakeholders like redevelopment authorities fill the gap. Redevelopment authorities and land banks are the local entities that work to revitalize vacant property and blighted neighborhoods. Redevelopment authorities focus on large, transformative development projects, while land banks typically address the problem of vacant, abandoned properties. Unlike private developers, which often lack transparency, redevelopment authorities are required to hold open meetings and share information with the public. They are mission-driven and can make long-term investments not only in businesses and buildings, but in citizens and community. They are not focused on just a single transaction, but rather a holistic vision of community advancement. Regardless of whether wealthy investors are enticed by a tax credit or racial solidarity, their actions alone will not have a mass effect on Black place-based poverty. At Build Baton Rouge, we work at the intersection of social and racial justice, urban planning, real estate development, community organizing and public finance. We can deploy “patient capital,” which doesn’t need to turn an immediate profit. It often costs as much to build quality developments in disinvested areas as it does in more prosperous ones, but creating affordable housing or retail space doesn’t yield as much profit. This, in turn, limits private investor interest. Redevelopment authorities like ours can take the risk of sponsoring development that corresponds with community needs. We can withstand the long investment turnaround cycles that are necessary to stabilize struggling neighborhoods. When we set out to revitalize Baton Rouge’s most blighted commercial corridor, Plank Road, which is 90% Black and heavily poor, we used input from the community to create an equitable development plan that matched community needs with philanthropy and public financing tools. That community vision, which is now partly complete, includes an early child care center, a new grocery store, transforming vacant lots into parks and providing loans for small Black-owned businesses. Some social justice advocates may be hesitant to trust redevelopment authorities, and for good reason. Redevelopment authorities in Washington, D.C., New Orleans and cities across the U.S. were responsible for isolating and blighting neighborhoods in the first place. They often were the agencies that drove highways through Black neighborhoods and built the ghettos. They spurred early waves of white flight and urban gentrification. The consequences of these policies continue today. Many redevelopment authorities now openly acknowledge past failures and are embracing equitable development. Many promote active and ongoing community engagement, recognizing that true equity requires intentional and deliberate planning to create neighborhood-controlled assets and institutions. Public institutions that make direct investments in communities are more likely to promote more collective forms of ownership and control. For instance, Build Baton Rouge is following the lead of many cities that are developing community land trusts to work with their land banks. A community land trust promotes direct community control of neighborhood assets like housing and commercial property. Since land banks hold distressed, vacant or abandoned properties and prime them for redevelopment, marrying the two empowers the community to organize on their terms and collectively manage local assets. Private investors have little incentive to invest in cooperatives, while redevelopment authorities can leverage a variety of public resources to support these efforts. To be clear, greater public involvement need not diminish private investment. It is certainly not at odds with the “Buy the Block” movement. Private investment from people who care about struggling neighborhoods is important, and so are public finance tools like tax credits that promote private investment. Moreover, it’s important that Black investors and developers are engaged in revitalizing Black neighborhoods. The desire for individual and family wealth creation has deep roots in Black freedom struggles. Respect, status and autonomy are associated with private property ownership — and all were historically denied Black people. So Black people need control over the revitalization of Black neighborhoods. But we can’t expect racial equity and social justice from privatization. Regardless of whether wealthy investors are enticed by a tax credit or racial solidarity, their actions alone will not have a mass effect on Black place-based poverty. Investors need to make money, regardless of their race. If profit comes before people, people lose. Transforming neighborhoods for the benefit of existing residents is not easy. But it can happen with strong public institutions and direct public investment. Only when we embrace the value of public institutions will we enter the real opportunity zone. Christopher J. Tyson is the CEO of Build Baton Rouge and an Encore Public Voices Fellow with the OpEd Project.