Welcome to Next Africa, a weekly newsletter of where the continent stands now — and where it's going next. For more than four decades, Nigeria ran its state refineries into the ground, putting the country in the unusual position of being one of the world’s biggest oil exporters and a major gasoline importer. Now that private investors, most significantly Aliko Dangote — Africa’s richest man — are rushing to open their   own plants, the state has stepped in again. The Nigerian National Petroleum Corp.   wants stakes in at least six planned refineries, including Dangote’s monster 650,000 barrels-per-day plant. There’s no explanation of how the cash-strapped state firm will pay. The NNPC says its vision is to boost the domestic refining capacity and to become a net exporter of petroleum products. Nigeria’s partly private fuel-import system had long been riddled with patronage and corruption. Fuel was imported only to be smuggled to neighboring states, and labor unions and civic groups accused the government of making billions of dollars of illegal payments for fuel subsidies.   Idled government refineries served that system well. “The state’s record at managing its own refineries speaks for itself — none of them have worked in years,” said Antony Goldman, founder of Promedia Consulting, a political risk advisory firm. “This is just how a small, but influential network of traders likes it.” While the NNPC may not be looking to control the plants, its influence would still be outsized. It’s likely to be relied upon for crude, and the government is responsible for permits and rules that need to be adhered to for a private business to succeed. Since stakes weren’t in the draft reform bill sent by the presidency to the National Assembly, the NNPC’s proposal may not come to pass. Still, the move raises the whiff of interference from entrenched “lobbies seeking to dilute the reform process,” Goldman says. While the NNPC says it wants to turn Nigeria into a fuel-products exporter, it hasn’t demonstrated the capability to do so. The government may be best advised leaving it to others. Land Setback | Plans by South Africa’s ruling party to amend the constitution to make it easier to seize land without paying for it have  gone awry. The African National Congress didn’t get enough support from other political groups to push the amendment through a parliamentary committee. The second-biggest party, the Democratic Alliance, opposes to the policy, while the radical Economic Freedom Fighters thinks it doesn't go far enough and wants all land nationalized. Support from one of them is needed to reach the two-thirds majority required to get it through the legislature. Coup Suspension | The African Union and the main West African regional bloc  suspended Mali from the organizations after the second coup in nine months. The exclusion will remain in force until the nation returns to civilian rule. The AU, however,  baulked at implementing sanctions against the military leaders and the Economic Community of West African States didn’t call for coup leader Assimi Goita, who was appointed as interim president by Mali’s top court, to hand over control. Power Ships | South Africa’s $16 billion plan to tap  emergency power from vessels at the nation's ports faces another hurdle. Business groups are questioning whether proper processes are being followed to establish the necessary infrastructure and whether it’s constitutional. The government’s selection of Turkey’s Karpowership as the preferred bidder to supply about 1,220 megawatts of electricity over two decades is already being  challenged in court by a losing bidder. Twitter Spat | The Nigerian government  condemned Twitter for deleting a tweet in which Muhammadu Buhari threatened to crackdown on separatists. The social media giant’s actions are “suspect” because the nation’s president has the right to express “dismay and anger” about recent attacks targeting security agents in southeastern Nigeria, according to Information Minister Lai Mohammed. Twitter took down a post in which the 78-year-old head of state suggested responding to the attacks “in a language that they understand.” Restarting Gas | Tanzania plans to begin building a delayed $30 billion natural gas project within two years, following the resumption of talks with companies including Equinor. The project gained momentum after President Samia Hassan took office in March and directed her administration to fast-track stalled investments. Plans for a LNG plant on the country’s southern coast and a pipeline connecting offshore fields have been under consideration since 2014. Similar projects across the nearby southern border in Mozambique have been put off by deadly militant attacks. Data Watch Ghana’s central bank unexpectedly lowered its benchmark interest rate Source: Bloomberg Note: Mapped data show rate changes for distinct central banks Coming Up Sessions of the Pan African Parliament descended into chaos this week, with lawmakers exchanging  death threats and scenes of fisticuffs broadcast from the proceedings. The legislative arm of the African Union started meeting on May 24 near Johannesburg and had been trying to elect a new president. Southern African leaders are demanding that the gathering implement an AU resolution to rotate its leadership, while eastern and western African delegates oppose the move. On Monday, the meeting was called off after one lawmaker was shown launching a flying kick at a group of fellow delegates. Julius Malema, the leader of South Africa’s populist EFF, threatened to kill a fellow lawmaker in response to a death threat by a Malian delegate, according to his party. “When a person says to me I will kill you I can’t give him roses, I told him I will kill you,” Malema said. The last two leaders of the institution have been from West Africa. — With assistance by William Clowes, and Karl Maier