U.S. equities declined and Treasury yields rose as investors weighed inflation risks and the potential impact of a minimum corporate tax that could enable foreign governments to impose levies on big American companies. The S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average turned lower after earlier climbing toward all-time highs. Losses in megacap tech stocks including Apple Inc. and Amazon.com Inc. weighed on the Nasdaq 100. Ten-year U.S. Treasury yields rose from the lowest since late April after Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said on Sunday a slightly higher interest-rate environment would be a plus. The pullback comes as recent data, including Friday’s jobs report, seemed to vindicate the Federal Reserve’s dovish stance on monetary policy. Investors are trying to strike a balance between the potential for higher interest rates and not missing out on a rally driven largely by massive government stimulus. The U.S. consumer-price index report due Thursday will be one of the last major economic indicators released before the Fed’s rate decision later this month. LISTEN: Dennis Gartman, chairman of the University of Akron Endowment Committee, speaks with Nathan Hager on Bloomberg Radio. “Though the jobs numbers were a bit of a mixed bag, they suggested solid progress but room for improvement, which could temper action on behalf of the Fed,” said Chris Larkin, managing director of trading and investing product at E*Trade Financial. “As we hover around record highs, keep in mind that it’s normal for the market to take a bit of a breather as we kick off the week.” Yellen said President Joe Biden should push forward with his spending plans even if they spark inflation that persists into next year. Meanwhile, the Group of Seven rich nations secured a landmark deal that could help countries collect more taxes from big firms and enable governments to impose levies on U.S. giants such as Amazon and Facebook. Biogen Inc. shares were halted after it received approval for its controversial Alzheimer’s disease therapy. Competitors including Eli Lilly & Co. rallied, pushing the Nasdaq Biotech Index toward the highest since late April. Tesla Inc. slumped after the electric-car maker called off plans to build a longer-range version of its high-end sedan. Underperformance by the tech-heavy Nasdaq 100 suggested investors were looking beyond pure growth narratives to sustain gains. The Russell 2000 Index rose for the third straight session on Monday, though it remained more than 2% below its June all-time high. European stocks advanced, with carmakers and consumer-products companies outperforming. Hayden Briscoe, head of Asia Pacific fixed income at UBS Asset Management, discusses Federal Reserve policy and its implications for bond markets. Source: Bloomberg For market commentary, follow the MLIV blog. Here are key events to watch this week: These are some of the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Cormac Mullen, Andreea Papuc, and Srinivasan Sivabalan