More than a fifth of retail space on Chicago’s Magnificent Mile is vacant after shoppers were driven away by the pandemic and unrest. Now, the reopening city urgently needs them to return. The corridor, one of America’s quintessential big-city shopping experiences, bolsters Chicago’s finances — the zip code where it’s located generated about $150 million from sales taxes in 2019. Last year, that plunged to around $60 million, according to local Alderman Brian Hopkins, whose ward includes the iconic stretch of Michigan Avenue. The empty storefronts are emblematic of the crisis facing cities around the world as they contend with emptied downtowns and the rise of e-commerce. But the Mag Mile’s decline has been even more dramatic than other downtown slumps — Chicago has emerged more vulnerable than most due to its longstanding population decline that’s shrinking the tax base, unfunded pension liabilities of more than $30 billion, and a decade-long run of budget deficits. “The vacancies are a concern,” said Chicago Alderman Scott Waguespack, who chairs the city council’s finance committee. “Those sales taxes pay for our programs. If someone buys stuff, that is funding for our budget.” Samir Mayekar, Chicago’s deputy mayor for economic and neighborhood development, said the corridor is “crucially important to the future of the city” and acknowledged the urgency of reinvigorating it. Hopes are high that the situation will improve this summer as restrictions ease. Crowds are returning, and big events starting back up, which should bring visiting shoppers to nearby hotels. Mayor Lori Lightfoot said the city will fully lift restrictions on June 11. Chicago is also getting $1.9 billion in federal aid from the American Rescue Plan. This assistance won’t last past a few years, however, so the clock is ticking for Chicago to revitalize its revenue streams. This includes bolstering retail areas like the Mag Mile, as well as those in under-developed neighborhoods. See Also: Treasury Rescue Won’t Bail Out Chicago, New Jersey From Debt Mayekar said Chicago will release an updated recovery plan in the coming weeks that takes into account feedback from business leaders. The city will also take actions to increase pedestrian traffic and activity in the greater downtown area, including the Mag Mile. “When people think of Chicago, they think of the Magnificent Mile,” he said in an interview. “That vacancy rate on the Mag Mile, we're going to make sure that doesn't become a permanent fixture.” If the empty storefronts persist, it could make a lasting dent in the area’s appeal. Vacancies were already climbing before the pandemic. Now, they’ve reached nearly 750,000 square feet, or 22% of the total, according to Cushman & Wakefield. This compares with 3.6% in 2016. Mag Mile vacancy rates, shown here, shot higher after the pandemic and last year's protests. Source: Cushman & Wakefield  While it isn’t the only retail district to be hit hard by the pandemic, the Mag Mile’s vacancy rates are higher than those of some counterparts. In San Francisco’s Union Square, for example, direct vacancy rates rose to 13.6% in the first quarter of 2021, up from 8.4% a year earlier, Cushman & Wakefield data show. The Mag Mile has seen nearly a dozen departures, including Gap and Macy’s. The departure of Macy’s leaves a 170,000-square-foot space in Water Tower Place, a mall at the north end of the corridor. The difficulties have sparked negotiations between the area’s landlords and retail tenants. Rents have declined from about $550 a square foot five or six years ago and now proposals are hovering around $350 to $375. But they may have to go lower. The decline mirrors what has happened in other premier retail locations in the U.S. For the lower stretch of New York’s Fifth Avenue, rents fell more than 15% during the first quarter of this year, while the luxury-leaning upper stretch saw rents fall 8.6% to $2,389 a square foot. On Rodeo Drive in Beverly Hills, rent declines have been more modest, according to Cushman & Wakefield. Whether rents return to pre-pandemic levels “will depend entirely on the sales volumes retailers can achieve,” said David Stone, a longtime retail real estate broker who is located on Michigan Avenue. Retailers also need to adjust their merchandise to fit shopping patterns that have emerged from the pandemic, he said. Those efforts need to be matched by the city with features such as outdoor food halls or trucks, children’s play areas, warming zones in cold weather and year-round live street entertainment. Total foot traffic change compared to the same time in 2019 Source: Bloomberg analysis of SafeGraph data Note: Data are 7-day moving averages of daily foot traffic adjusted for the number of detected devices in the sample, relative to March 1, 2020. Lower rents could also give more mom-and-pop stores a chance to return to the Mag Mile years after many were priced out. Their presence would “dramatically add to the allure” of the area, Stone said. The profile of the area’s headline retailers could change as well: Target, the cheap-chic retailer that has performed well during the pandemic, has been mentioned as a replacement candidate for Macy’s. “This is an important place in American retailing,” said Greg Kirsch, an executive managing director at Cushman & Wakefield. “Economics alone will justify its re-imagination.” The biggest risk, he added, would be a static approach in which little changes. In the past, the Mag Mile was attractive, in spite of its high costs, because it gave retailers a chance to raise their brand profiles. But that thinking is changing: Now, stores have to be profitable, said Kirsch, who has worked on deals in the Mag Mile. Lower rent is a key part of this equation, and could also give mom-and-pop shops a chance there. The Magnificent Mile Association, which represents area businesses, says there's concern that things could get worse before they get better. The group previously focused more on marketing efforts, but now it’s also working to help recruit businesses to avoid more vacancies. “I’m not sure we’ve seen the last,” said Kimberly Bares, the group’s chief executive officer, referring to companies leaving the area. She said the group is “bracing” for other departures. Mayekar said the city is also working to recruit businesses that provide experiences to attract customers. He cited a multilevel  Starbucks Reserve Roastery that replaced Crate & Barrel on the Magnificent Mile in 2019 and said officials are looking at online retailers seeking a brick-and-mortar presence. Getting shoppers back also requires the return of Chicago’s conventions, which are the lifeblood of the city’s tourism industry. The events’ attendees often stay at the hotels on and near the Mag Mile and boost the retailers’ sales. The convention business is starting to stir: The city’s annual auto show is poised to return this summer. The Lollapalooza mega-concert, which runs from July 29 through Aug. 1, should also attract visitors. Pedestrian traffic has inched up in recent weeks as leisure travel picks up and office workers start coming back. Lines at Zara, Burberry, Starbucks and Garrett Popcorn Shops, a hometown favorite, are stoking some optimism. On a recent afternoon in late May, Donya and Tiffany Bannister strolled down the Magnificent Mile, carrying Timberland and Saks Fifth Avenue shopping bags. They were married two days earlier after a one-year delay and were staying at the nearby Sofitel hotel for their honeymoon. “It’s been a while since I’ve been down here on the Magnificent Mile,” said Donya, 31, who was born on the West Side of Chicago and now lives in the south suburbs. “I am so ready to come back down here.” He noted that activity on the street is starting to look more like normal — but it’s not the same level he’s used to. “It’s not dead,” he said. “It’s just not as crowded.” — With assistance by Andre Tartar