As Covid-19 emptied Rio de Janeiro’s beaches and overwhelmed hospitals, luxury realtor Frederic Cockenpot was flooded with requests. Business were shut and the economy was reeling, but foreign clients were desperate to do deals.“They said, ‘Fred, find me something now, I need to send the money right now,’” said Cockenpot, who runs WhereInRio, an agency that caters to international buyers. For investors with hard currency, a 21% plunge in the Brazilian real since the start of 2020 has enticed them to pick up real-estate bargains. Buyers have pounced on dips and swings in the foreign exchange rate, purchasing vacation homes and investment properties -- and betting that better times are ahead for a city still fighting a rampant Covid outbreak that's battered the economy and become a major political crisis for President Jair Bolsonaro. Fabio Canfora has seen the turmoil as a chance to pick up a cheap asset. On a house-hunting trip in January, he purchased a four-bedroom apartment in the heart of Ipanema, a tony neighborhood with one of the world’s most celebrated beaches. In January, the cost of buying and renovating his vacation home came to about 1 million reais ($196,998), roughly half of what Canfora estimated it would have cost him when he left the country in 2017. “To be honest, this was unthinkable,” said the 47-year-old Italian energy executive and former Rio resident. Ahead of Brazil hosting the 2014 World Cup and 2016 Summer Olympics, Rio’s real estate market was compared to that of New York or Paris. Rio was brimming with tourists and petrodollars, while frenzied investors were eager to land deals on limited properties in the city that’s surrounded by the mountains and Atlantic Ocean. The rush pumped up a housing bubble and hype that the good times in resource-rich Brazil were here to stay. Both burst by the close of the world games -- commodity prices crashed, a president was impeached, and a corruption investigation ensnared top political and business leaders adding to a sense that the South American nation was coming apart at the seams. Property prices spiraled and the real is down nearly 37% since the Olympics five years ago. But now real estate in Rio, like in much of the country, is heating up after the government slashed interest rates to boost the economy -- making financing cheap. Some foreign investors already have a connection to Rio, whether it's their favorite tourist destination or former home, while those who spend at least 1 million reais are eligible for government-issued visas, which allows them longer-term stays. From January through April, about 13,012 homes were sold, compared to 8,738 in the same period in 2020, according to Rio de Janeiro’s Housing Union. The 55% increase is the biggest jump during the first four months of a year since 2013. Pandemic heats up housing markets after years of declines Source: Fipezap Note: 12-month accumulated price variation The rebound comes as Covid compounds a decades-long slide. In 1960, Brazil moved the center of government from Rio to the modernist capital of Brasilia, while the business hub of Sao Paulo absorbed jobs and much of the professional class. In the wake of the virus, tourism has dried up -- denting a key sector for Rio. But investors like Luc Fontana, 31, a Lille, France-based property developer, are expecting a turnaround. He spent over 2.2 million reais on an eight-bedroom, 19th century villa in Santa Teresa, a colonial neighborhood on a hill that overlooks the city center, and is converting the property into a boutique hotel. Fontana, who left Brazil shortly after birth, said the weak real inspired him to invest in his native land. “This is my adventure,” he said, “When the pandemic is over, the world is going to want to visit again.” Skeptics say a burst of foreign capital will do little to fix Rio's poorer neighborhoods or congested slums that are beset by dilapidated housing and crime. Buyers “will carve out bubbles of existence, which is basically what always happened, but now it will be exaggerated,” said Julia Michaels, author of “Rio de Janeiro: Como Chegamos Aqui?” or “Rio de Janeiro: How Did We Get Here?” Overdevelopment ahead of the Olympics left a glut of housing in Rio’s suburban western districts, while the working-class northern side of the city went largely ignored. Efforts to revitalize the decaying downtown have so far struggled to bring in significant new businesses. Still, some say their purchases are about more than making money. Warrick Oliver, 50, who works for an engineering company that repairs London’s highways, completed payment in February of a one-bedroom condo in the central neighborhood of Lapa that cost him about 450,000 reais. The pandemic devastated the area’s nightlife and put its famed Samba parties on hold, but Oliver says it provided him with an opportunity to start planning his retirement in Rio, which in his view will always be unparalleled. “It’s the lifestyle,” he said. “Sitting on the beach if you want to sit on the beach, if you want to have a drink on a Tuesday evening, you can have a drink on a Tuesday evening. It’s the freedom.”