German Chancellor Angela Merkel sounded a note of caution following summit talks with her allies from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization that highlighted concerns about China’s growing military power. Merkel urged NATO to maintain a sense of balance in its dealings with China as it seeks a response to Beijing’s increasing military power. The 30-member NATO alliance turned the page -- coincidentally, on Donald Trump’s birthday -- on the former U.S. president’s aggressive approach to the defense organization, which Joe Biden called “essential for America.” Otherwise, the main takeaway from the summit was the striking of a delicate balance between countries like the U.S., which wanted stronger push-back against China, and partners who privilege dialogue because of the lucrative economic ties. The final statement had much more, and much stronger words, than the one-sentence reference to China at the last, 2019 such summit.German Chancellor Angela Merkel was among those urging partners not to close the door on China, calling for “balance.” President Emmanuel Macron said he delivered a clear message to Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey that it’s not France’s intention to attack Islam and that the republic protects all faiths. In press remarks after the summit, Macron said Erdrogan agreed that all foreign mercenaries must exit Libya. After months of public tensions between the two leaders, the mood during their meeting was relaxed, Macron said. Macron also said that France is inviting the U.S. and South Africa to join an anti-terrorist task force in the Sahel region, which currently has troops from 10 countries. He stressed that France will maintain all its committments toward allies in the region. Asked about a marked disagreement with Mark Rutte regarding European strategic autonomy, Macron said it was up to the Dutch prime minister to explain his thinking and suggested that is Rutte is isolated within Europe. Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg heralded the speed at which NATO has stepped up to address the challenges posed by China, given that its first reference to the Asian power in a communique was only around 18 months ago. Those systemic challenges come from the arena of space and cyber, as well as more traditional military and political threats, he said. “NATO has come a long way,” he said in a press conference after the summit with national leaders. “You can see we have a convergence of views among allies.” Merkel urged her NATO allies not to close the door on Beijing, nor to forget about the challenges that remain in the West, as they respond to China’s increasing military power. Merkel highlighted China’s cyber activity, its hybrid threats and its cooperation with Russia and called for “balance” in NATO’s approach and dialogue with the Chinese government. “China’s military rise is of course an issue,” she told reporters after the summit. “But that doesn’t mean that we can forget all the alliance’s obligations in our neighborhood.” Angela Merkel is greeted by Jens Stoltenberg during the summit. Photographer: Kenzo Tribouillard/AFP viaq Getty Images Speaking after the summit, NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg underscored the leaders’ concerns about China.“There is strong convergence of views among allies” on China, Stoltenberg told reporters, mentioning opportunities to engage with the country in arms control and climate change issues. “We are concerned by China’s coercive policies which stand in contrast to the fundamental values enshrined in the Washington treaty” on which NATO rests, he said. Stoltenberg mentioned China rapidly expanding its nuclear arsenal with more warheads and a large number of sophisticated delivery systems, cooperating militarily with Russia including through exercises, and its use of disinformation. Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis told Boris Johnson that the epidemiological situation in his country means it’s safe for British tourists to visit again, Mitsotakis’s office said. The Greek leader also asked Johnson to treat all EU countries the same when he makes his decision, rather than allowing holidays in only some destinations. As the summit talks began, Biden walked the length of the table, fist-bumped Romanian President Klaus Iohannis and spoke with Britain’s Boris Johnson. Among a group of some half or dozen people, Biden chatted at some length with Turkey’s Recep Tayyip Erdogan before NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg came over and the two men took their seats next to each other. France’s Emmanuel Macron approached and leaned in to speak with the U.S. leader just before Stoltenberg opened the session. “No nation and no continent can deal with these challenges alone,” he said. “But Europe and North America are not alone. We stand together with NATO.” French President Emmanuel Macron’s meeting with Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey lasted longer than expected because both leaders wanted to discuss all subjects in depth, according to French officials. In talks before the main summit session, the two leaders agreed to move forward together on Syria and Libya but Macron told Erdogan that other countries shouldn’t try to take advantage of France’s secular republican values, the officials said. Macron in March accused Erdogan of trying to meddle in France’s election which is due next year. Turkey is funding the construction of Europe’s largest mosque in the French city of Strasbourg at a time when Macron is increasingly concerned about the role that some mosques play in the spread of extremist ideology. Upon his arrival at NATO headquarters, Biden paid fulsome tribute to both the alliance and Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg. Biden interrupted Stoltenberg, who was speaking of the need for a strong NATO, to say this was “very good for America, essential for America.”“NATO is critically important to U.S. interests,” Biden said, adding that he viewed the organization’s mutual defense guarantee as a “sacred obligation.” “I just want all of Europe to know the United States is there. The United States is there.” German Chancellor Angela Merkel said NATO must push ahead with efforts to adapt its tools and methods to new challenges to make the alliance “fit for the future.” Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg is tackling the task of developing NATO’s capabilities to react to new threats, while maintaining the alliance’s core goals, Merkel said in a video message to the German Marshall Fund’s Brussels Forum. “In large families, there is always a lot of intensive discussion,” Merkel said, adding that she’s especially pleased that U.S. President Biden is attending the summit. “But when it comes down to it, it’s about being there for each other.” NATO leaders don’t want a new Cold War with China, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson told reporters on his arrival at the alliance’s headquarters. China is “a new strategic consideration for NATO, which after all has spent so much of its time in the last 72 years thinking about the Soviet Union, and of course the various security threats posed from that area,” Johnson said. “I don’t think anybody around the table today wants to descend into a new Cold War with China,” he said. “People see challenges, things we have to manage together, but they also see opportunities and I think what we need to do is to do it together.” LISTEN: Bloomberg’s Maria Tadeo discusses the NATO Summit with Amy Morris on Bloomberg Radio. With the security impact of climate change in sharp focus by leaders, allies must assess it as a “crisis multiplier” that will lead to “more conflict over scarce resources,” NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg told the Brussels Forum ahead of the summit. “Climate change will directly affect how we develop equipment, how we do exercises, how we do our planning,” Stoltenberg said. He pointed to rising sea levels affecting naval bases, and heat waves for instance in Iraq impacting how NATO operates. Allies also need “to contribute to the reduction of emissions,” he added. “China’s stated ambitions and assertive behavior present systemic challenges,” NATO leaders will declare on Monday, according to the latest draft of their joint communique seen by Bloomberg. Leaders will reassure that they will address these challenges “together as an alliance,” according to the 44-page document, dated June 14, in which China is mentioned 10 times. Alliance leaders will agree on the NATO 2030 agenda, which Stoltenberg said is about “how to reinforce our collective defense, strengthen our resilience and sharpening our technological edge.” Stoltenberg also said that for the first time they’ll “make climate and security an important task for our alliance.” The NATO chief said that to do this, “we need to resource our higher level of ambition and therefore we need to invest more.” He added that he was confident “NATO leaders will agree to invest more together to meet our higher level of ambition.” Jens Stoltenberg, NATO’s secretary general, highlighted challenges posed by both Russia and China ahead of today’s summit. Jens Stoltenberg on June 14. “Our relationship with Russia is at its lowest point since the end of the Cold War,” Stoltenberg told reporters on his arrival. “This is due to Russian actions. I am confident NATO leaders will confirm our dual-track approach to Russia, strong defense combined with dialog.” On China, Stoltenberg said “there are of course opportunities and we need to engage” with the country on issues like climate change and arms control. “But China’s military build-up, growing influence and coercive behavior also poses some challenges to our security,” he said. “And we need to address that together as an alliance.” The leaders will declare that China’s more assertive foreign policy, “coercive” practices and expanding nuclear capabilities present a systemic challenge that must be dealt with. And a particularly troubling issue for the Western military alliance is Beijing’s close relationship with NATO’s traditional foe, Russia, according to the draft communiques. But consensus will be difficult on this topic as not everyone is on the same page on how to deal with Beijing, which is an important trading partner and investor in several member states. The amount of money NATO countries spend on defense, a topic that provoked serious problems during the Trump administration, has continued to increase. According to the latest figures, total spending by alliance members rose to $1.2 trillion in 2021, according to NATO estimates. Ten countries will meet the NATO guideline of spending at least 2% of gross domestic product on defense in 2021, the same number as last year. — With assistance by Katharina Rosskopf, Nikos Chrysoloras, Alberto Nardelli, Josh Wingrove, Jennifer Jacobs, Arne Delfs, Ania Nussbaum, Samy Adghirni, Kait Bolongaro, Milda Seputyte, Jasmina Kuzmanovic, Jan Bratanic, Maria Tadeo, Allegra Catelli, and Iain Rogers