Group of Seven leaders meeting this weekend in England are discussing plans to counter China’s effort to win influence around the world and rebuke the country over forced labor practices, according to two U.S. officials. The leaders are planning a coordinated infrastructure initiative for developing countries, the officials said, after China has gained leverage by financing projects beyond its borders. President Joe Biden also is asking the gathering of the largest advanced democracies to condemn what he calls China’s use of forced labor, including the government’s treatment of its Uyghur minority in the Xinjiang region. Additionally, the leaders for the first time are expected to directly mention security challenges posed by China in a joint communique issued at the end of the summit. The totality of the work is designed to offer an explicit contrast between Beijing’s approach to foreign relations and the alternative offered by industrialized democracies, according to the officials who briefed reporters on the plans on the condition of anonymity. Biden has in recent months argued the world is at an “inflection point” in a struggle between autocracies and democracies. Read More: China Asserts Broad Power to Seize Assets in Anti-Sanctions Law “We’re going to make it clear that the United States is back and democracies of the world are standing together to tackle the toughest challenges and the issues that matter most to our future,” Biden said Wednesday upon arriving in the U.K. for the summit in Cornwall. China has worked to build international alliances by underwriting infrastructure projects in dozens of countries. Beijing also is sending coronavirus vaccines to the developing world, bolstering its international standing in places like Latin America and Southeast Asia through donations. The announcement Saturday will include a program dubbed Build Back Better for the World that is intended as an alternative to China’s Belt and Road Initiative, a massive trillion-dollar undertaking that has seen Beijing finance a network of infrastructure projects. The G-7 plan -- a play on Biden’s Build Back Better domestic agenda -- will offer alternative infrastructure opportunities with a greater emphasis on labor and environmental standards, transparency, and private sector involvement, the officials said. Yet it’s not clear how -- or if -- the announcement will substantively change existing infrastructure efforts by the U.S. and its allies in the developing world. The Biden administration will ask Congress to “augment” available development financing resources, one of the officials said. The leaders are seeking to make the G-7 efforts collectively a more effective counterweight to China’s efforts than individual infrastructure initiatives some member nations have started in recent years. Earlier: Smiling G-7 Leaders Gather for ‘Wedding’ Diplomacy by the Sea Biden also plans to press fellow G-7 leaders on Saturday to take concrete action against forced labor practices. The U.S. hopes leaders will make clear that China’s treatment of the Uyghurs is both morally outrageous and unfair economic competition, the officials said. The White House has come under intense pressure from unions, human-rights groups and lawmakers who demand a ban on imports made with forced labor in the Xinjiang region. Administration officials for months have said they intend to remove forced labor products from U.S. supply chains but have yet to act. A group of Democratic House members this week asked U.S. Customs and Border Protection to prohibit imports of polysilicon, a crucial material in solar panels, made with forced labor in China, adding that the agency has investigated and promised imminent action three months ago. — With assistance by Jenny Leonard, Josh Wingrove, and Jennifer Jacobs