A bipartisan pair of U.S. senators are pushing for legislation to support local governments that expand their ability to deal with mental health-care emergencies, seeking to shift the responsibility away from the police. The bill, introduced by Nevada Democrat Catherine Cortez Masto and Texas Republican John Cornyn, would provide funding to expand mental-health services, including to the uninsured. It would also create a nationwide set of standards for running crisis hotlines, urgent care facilities, residential centers and mobile units that respond to behavioral crises. “The coronavirus pandemic has exacerbated the mental health challenges so many Americans are facing, and we need to act with urgency to protect vulnerable people experiencing behavioral health crises and provide them with the treatment and services they need to get healthy,” said Cortez Masto in an emailed statement. “I’ve heard from both law enforcement and civil rights leaders that we can’t rely on the same old system.” The legislation introduced Thursday reflects the broader effort nationwide to pivot away from relying on police as the first responders to mental health crises. The current approach is considered costly, time-consuming and can escalate into deadly encounters. New York City is  running a pilot program that sends emergency medical and mental health care workers instead of police in some instances. Los Angeles, San Francisco, Denver, Chicago and Greenville, North Carolina are trying programs of their own. The efforts are modeled in part after a  30-year-old program in Eugene, Oregon, that routes calls involving non-violent substance abuse, homelessness or mental health issues to a team made up of one EMS officer and one social worker. Those teams typically work alone, only calling police for backup in 1% of cases. That type of shift is intended to help prevent people in mental health crises from encounters like those that resulted in police shootings in Rochester, Philadelphia and Boston. Read more: ‘All the Systems Failed’: Mental Health, Police and Deadly Risks Having individual elements of a behavioral health system is a start, but mobile teams, urgent care and post-care facilities must work together and be interlinked for success, according to a March report from the National Council for Behavioral Health. Funding under the federal bill would come through a block grant program for qualifying state, local and community programs that meet the national standards set out in the legislation. Since last year, as part of the American Rescue Plan and supplemental funding, mental health programs received $3 billion in grants from the federal government. The exact scale of the funding to be provided isn’t set by the bill. The legislation would mark the first attempt to create a funding mechanism that would be paired with national standards for this kind of care. So far, efforts have been piecemeal and city-specific, meaning for individuals in crisis, the experience can be akin to punishment rather than care, said David Covington, the chief executive officer of RI International, which designs crisis service efforts nationwide. A combination of the calls for social justice in the aftermath of George Floyd’s murder, the pandemic and the potential for cost savings has helped galvanize support in the space, Covington added. “We’re at an inflection point,” he said. “For the first time in my lifetime we’re seeing the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, Medicare leadership, members of Congress and the Biden administration talking about mental health care.”