Some 65 years ago in Pittsburgh’s Lower Hill District, 1,300 buildings were razed, displacing thousands of Black, Jewish, Italian and Eastern European families under a “slum clearance” mandate. It was the first federal program in the U.S. to engage in urban renewal, the now-notorious term for demolishing neighborhoods that officials considered blighted. Now, a new $230 million project approved this month by local government authorities to redevelop the neighborhood puts Black people in the driver’s seat of the Hill District’s remaking. It’s a test of the nagging question: Can racist urban redevelopment practices of the past ever be corrected with more urban redevelopment? For years in Pittsburgh that answer was an emphatic “no”: Black families who were pushed into the adjacent Middle and Upper Hill District neighborhoods resisted subsequent attempts to redevelop the neighborhood, fearing more displacement. After the Civic Arena entertainment and sports stadium was built in 1961, Black Hill residents erected a billboard that read: “NO Redevelopment Beyond This Point.” But the project passed this month by local authorities has mostly been welcomed. It is led by a team of Black developers and investors and has the support of virtually every Black elected official connected to the land in question. In fact, the current plans are being touted as a catalyst for economic revitalization of the greater Hill District, an area that prosperity ignored after the early urban renewal debacle. The project calls for a 26-story, 437,000 square-foot commercial office tower, anchored by a new headquarters for First National Bank, with an additional 35,000 square feet of retail space on the ground floor. It will be surrounded by a $4 million green space for leisure, community activities and kiosks situated throughout for small business interactions. The 1.5-acre site is just the kickoff to a broader $1 billion redevelopment plan for the rest of the 28-acre Lower Hill District tract, which has sat barren for the last 10 years, save for overgrown weeds and unused parking spaces — a remnant of the former Civic Arena. Having outlived its purpose, and serving too long as a painful reminder to Hill residents of what was deleted, the Arena was abandoned by the NHL’s Penguins team in 2010 and the building was demolished a year later. The first parcel of the new construction will, in many ways, set the tone for how development commences across the rest of the Lower Hill, and for how benefits will flow to the families and business owners in the neighboring Middle and Upper Hill districts. The overall tenor is that the office tower, called the FNB Corp. Financial Center, could do the trick — or at least start the trick. But not everyone in the community is convinced this is the right note to start on. For the Hill District Community Development Corporation, an advocacy organization for Hill denizens, there are questions about whether the plans fully satisfy a community benefits agreement that was created to ensure local residents would have a voice in the process. The agreement, called the Community Collaboration and Implementation Plan, essentially provides guidelines for new development so that the Hill will not get ransacked as it has in the past. “We know the scale of this particular site, which is the most densely populated portion of the site from a commercial standpoint, which means that it holds the greatest opportunity for return to the community, right?” says Marimba Milliones, executive director of the Hill CDC. “So it’s not something that we can address casually or as an afterthought. We have to be very intentional on how we approach this, which is what we’ve been trying to do.” While the developers  have yet to agree on a reinvestment plan with the Hill CDC, the current proposal commits to an unprecedented investment for the historically capital-neglected neighborhood. Delaware-based Buccini/Pollin Group (BPG) and its investment partners have presented a package of nearly $50 million in funding and resources to help struggling families and business owners throughout the rest of the Hill District. “I find it compelling that this site was the first chosen in the nation for urban redevelopment, and now we’re back 70 years later to do it again and on the same spot,” said Chris Buccini, BPG’S co-president, during testimony at a May hearing. “We have not been able to commit to all of the requests from the Hill CDC, but we’ve made a very big impact, one that we’re very proud to be a part of.” Throughout this process the Hill CDC has been working with the BPG development team on a strategy that would meet the community benefits agreement’s goals for equitable development. In addition to workforce and wealth-building opportunities for area residents, those goals include minority- and women-owned businesses involved in contracting, an inclusive housing commitment, and a plan to preserve the Hill’s culture. The developer must also coordinate with the community on the existing  Greater Hill District Master Plan. To that end, what the BPG development team is offering in benefits begins with a $7.5 million deposit into what’s called the Greater Hill Reinvestment Fund, which will finance housing and business opportunities in the Middle and Upper Hill communities. Another pool of money, estimated at roughly $22 million, would be allocated for loans and grants for community development. A new Live Nation music venue would house a minority business incubator, available rent-free for 29 years. And a workforce development program would tackle persistent unemployment in the Hill and connect workers to new jobs, including a new worker resource center that opened on June 8. Testifying at local hearings, the developers and their supporters have said this project needs to move forward because the Lower Hill has sat too long denuded of any capital investment while businesses and homes in the rest of the Hill have slowly withered away — a point that even many opponents of the plans have no quarrel with. The sooner the Lower Hill vacant lots can be revived, the sooner financial stimulus can flow to fix roofs and storefront facades, and build new ones in the Middle and Upper Hill neighborhoods. “If we don’t take this action today, we don’t create the fund that allows for all this other stuff to happen,” said city council member Daniel Lavelle, who’s been a proponent of the plans, and who also co-chairs the executive management committee, which decides whether the plans comply with the community benefits agreement. Lavelle is one of a number of Hill District natives with deep ties to the community who have become the champions of the plan. The local development cohort is led by Bomani Howze, a Hill District native whose father, former Hill city council member Sala Udin,helped establish Pittsburgh’s historically cherished Black theater scene alongside the renowned playwright August Wilson. In January, BPG hired Kimberly Ellis, Wilson’s niece, to fill the newly created position of vice president of community, arts and culture. “After not being able to participate in real estate, and then two generations of living in the projects, and then me coming back as a developer — it’s a very poetic story.” Even with the central involvement of these Black Hill residents in business decisions, some question whether Hill community groups actually had input, or a choice in deciding the developer and the plans. The CDC is asking for more that the developers have yet agreed to, including an aspirational commitment that at least 10% of the jobs created go to Hill residents, and affordable or discounted office space rates in the tower for small Black business owners. “I could cite the areas of misalignment with the [community benefits agreement],” testified Milliones at the Pittsburgh planning commission hearing on the project in early May. “We have yet to receive a signed agreement that assures that we do not repeat history.” Despite that lack of agreement, the planning commission moved forward with approving the plans on May 4, as did two other local governing boards in June, after hearing from numerous Hill District community members who testified in support of the project. The challenge for the BPG development team was always going to be how to sell a promising project to a community that has suffered more than its fair share of broken promises. In 1960, as construction began on the Civic Arena, Black Hill leaders also lined up in support for the coming attraction, with the understanding, or hope, that Black Hill residents would benefit from it in terms of well-paying, sustainable jobs. But Black Pittsburghers were quickly disabused of that idea by the time the Civic Arena opened in 1961. When the arena was demolished, it put an even greater distance between the Hill and economic stability. The 28 acres of land left behind have since been the grounds for a contentious game of thrones between the local redevelopment authorities who own the land; the Pittsburgh Penguins hockey team, which has the development rights to the land; the city, which has desperately desired to get that land back into commerce; and the Hill District, which is still reeling from the federal urban renewal that wiped a good portion of it off the map. It’s been generally agreed across the Hill that some form of reparations is due. While urban renewal is the primary story told about the Hill District, Kimberly Ellis, BPG’s director of community, arts and culture, says that it’s time for a new and more inclusive narrative for the neighborhood. As the chief designer and storyteller for the green space around the office tower, Ellis says she’s framing a broader lens for the Hill District story, beginning with its first Black settlers of the early 19th century. These families grew into free Black communities that would later become part of the Underground Railroad, hosting abolitionists such as Martin Delany, William Lloyd Garrison and Frederick Douglass. Her uncle August Wilson’s ten-play cycle collectively depicts a history of both the ordinary and extraordinary aspects of Black life in the Hill District, and Black America by extension. Ellis, who taught her uncle’s plays at Carnegie Mellon University, plans to continue stretching that narrative across the reimagined Lower Hill. “In the construction of the African-American story, the Hill is the oldest neighborhood and [Black] people founded this part of the Lower Hill,” says Ellis. “That is amazing to me because these were all free Black people. At the time in 1829, we were not African Americans. We were however we defined ourselves — but we were not African American, and we were free.” Her role in the Hill District has itself been one of evolving definitions. For one, Ellis does not have a traditional background in urban planning and community development. Years ago, she helped fight off development in the Lower Hill alongside the CDC in opposition to an earlier proposal that included a casino and a gas drilling site. Much of her own professional development in planning happened over the past ten years, she says, from her work to get historic preservation designation for August Wilson’s Hill District home, and on the Greater Hill District Master Plan, the first community-driven blueprint for the neighborhood. “Why do I have this [position]?” she said of her current role in the development project. “Because I’ve been planning for years, living in this community, taking advantage of the services — or lack of services for years. When I started doing historic preservation work in the Hill, I had to go up and down the streets and literally catalog and take pictures of all the different types of buildings and housing stock. When you’re going block by block, building by building, house by house, you learn your community.” When Bomani Howze was tapped by BPG to help lead the local development team in November of 2020, he was also already invested in rebuilding the community. His OLMEC development company was awarded one of the first contracts for the Lower Hill to build housing on another parcel. But his involvement is as much personal as it is business. The Howze family has long been central to preserving the Hill District’s legacy. In fact, the office tower will be built near where his grandparents built a home in the Hill upon arrival from the South. His mother Tamanika Howze — known affectionately around town as “Mother Sister” — is a longtime educator and organizer. Her image is  emblazoned on the streets of the Hill, as part of an art installation by print artist Njaimeh Njie. Howze’s father, former city councilman Sala Udin, was just re-elected to represent the Hill on Pittsburgh’s school board. Udin also starred in August Wilson’s earliest plays — some of which  dealt directly with the impact of urban development on the Hill. In terms of whether this new deal will bring wealth to the Black community, or more dismantlement, as Wilson warned, there are few people more motivated — or burdened — to ensure this plan succeeds than Howze or Ellis. “My grandparents, when they came up from the South, they settled on Fullerton Street, which is maybe a thousand feet, maybe from the site, and they were forcibly removed from the Lower Hill and displaced into the Francis housing projects,” says Howze. “After not being able to participate in real estate, and then two generations of living in the projects, and then me coming back as a developer on the site — it’s a very poetic story.” But Howze and Ellis are not the only people whose family names are at stake. Marimba Milliones is also a native daughter of the Hill. Her mother, Margaret Milliones, was also a trailblazing activist, educator and school board member. Her father, Jake Milliones, became president of the school board in the 1980s before he became Pittsburgh’s first African American elected from the Hill District to city council in 1988. A school in the neighborhood still bears the Milliones name. And while her connections are personal, she’s also about the business of the Hill District as well. The Hill CDC she presides over is currently in charge of the $45 million restoration of the New Granada Theater, which was once the crown jewel of the Hill’s storied entertainment corridor, and one of the few vestiges of the Hill’s glory days still standing. When completed, it will include below-market housing, with priority for artists in the Hill District, along with restaurant, retail, event and performance spaces. In fact, because of her and the CDC’s advocacy — and a lawsuit against the city’s planning division to ensure it complied with the community benefits agreement — whatever is built in the Lower Hill will, by law, financially aid projects in the Middle and Upper Hill. Their collective destinies are intertwined. Which is why Milliones wants to make sure that the Lower Hill is done right. The issue is not whether benefits will flow from the Lower Hill to the rest of the Hill, but whether the benefits will be sufficient. For the Hill CDC, where the plan falls short is around ownership and accountability. According to Milliones, the plan offers few opportunities for Hill community members to have an ownership stake, or, as she says, “a presence,” in what is being built (so far) in the Lower Hill. The development team believes the benefits package it is offering is more than sufficient, and the majority of elected officials and redevelopment authorities agree — though many acknowledge there is room for improvement. “I readily and openly admit that this is not a finished product, nor has it been a perfect process,” said Lavelle at a hearing in June. “There is still more work to be done and more to get accomplished.” The city’s planning commission approved the BPG plans on the condition that the development team’s applications moving forward must be accompanied by a dashboard reporting back on new terms as they are agreed to, and “reporting on any additional progress on other terms that have been discussed between the community and the development team.” While there is some uncertainty around how that condition will be met, Milliones counts this as a “structural victory” for the Hill community —  that the governing boards are willing to acknowledge and answer to the community benefits agreement terms in some shape or form. “They would not have done that without advocacy,” says Milliones. “This is a new day. And beyond just the Hill District community, I think that American citizens are really at that point where we need to see a different level of commitment from the wealthiest among us. I think that the Hill District does an extraordinarily good job of holding its own in that regard. But quite frankly, it should be policy. It shouldn’t be advocacy that requires that; it should be policy.” 