Asian stocks rose Tuesday, tracking a U.S. equity rebound, as the prospect of gradual policy tightening tempered concerns over the Federal Reserve’s hawkish tilt. Treasuries and the dollar stabilized after a retreat. Japanese shares outperformed, helping a gauge of Asia-Pacific stocks to the biggest climb in about three weeks. S&P 500 contracts edged up after the index rallied overnight, aided by a revival of the value trade in sectors like energy and financials. European equity futures were also in the green. Yields on longer-dated Treasuries rebounded in the U.S. session Monday, even as short-end rates remained firmly anchored. That undid some of the curve-flattening that swept across markets after Fed officials last week accelerated their expected pace of policy tightening. Brent oil hit $75 a barrel for the first time since April 2019. The dollar trimmed some of its slide from U.S. hours. Bitcoin sank closer to $30,000 after China intensified its cryptocurrency clampdown. Investors striving to assess the outlook for markets are focused on price pressures and the risk they may pose to the economic recovery from the pandemic. The shift in the Fed’s tone has put the spotlight on the comments coming from policy makers this week. Chair Jerome Powell, in written remarks, reiterated inflation had picked up but should move back toward the U.S. central bank’s 2% target once supply imbalances resolve. New York Fed President John Williams also said he continues to view the recent spike in inflation as a temporary phenomenon. Dallas Fed President Robert Kaplan said he favors starting the process of reducing bond purchases “sooner rather than later.” His counterpart from St. Louis James Bullard called it “appropriate” that policy makers opened the taper debate. “There’s probably going to be some back and forth here,” said Tracie McMillion, Wells Fargo Investment Institute head of global asset allocation strategy. “There is a lot of cash on the sidelines right now. Some of that is going to be earmarked to go into the markets, and we think the best place right now to be investing is in the equity markets.” For more market commentary, follow the MLIV blog. Here are some events to watch this week: These are some of the main moves in financial markets: — With assistance by Heather Burke