For more than a year, the coronavirus has remained the focus of the health-care sector and all that exists in its orbit, demanding the attention of U.S. health officials, hospitals and headlines. But now the hottest and most heavily invested-in area of drug development -- cancer -- is starting to step out from the shadows. Drugmakers at the American Society of Clinical Oncology meeting that began Friday and runs through Tuesday are eager to rekindle interest in a business that saw its market value drop and its products underperform sales estimates as the pandemic played out. While there are no clear blockbusters this year, research presented at the ASCO meeting by Novartis AG, as well as AstraZeneca Plc and Merck & Co., showed significant progress against some tough-to-beat malignancies. Among the gains: A key expansion to an emerging class of drugs that deliver radiation directly to cancer cells; a pill with promise against hard-to-treat triple-negative breast cancer; a first-of-its-kind blood test available by prescription to detect malignancies; and an early entrant to a coming wave of Chinese drugs that could offer cheaper alternatives to costly existing therapies. Here’s a breakdown: The ASCO meeting kicked off Friday with a celebration of the 50th anniversary of the National Cancer Act. ASCO officials also touched on lessons learned about cancer care during the pandemic throughout the meeting, and outlined recommendations on how to ensure clinical trials are more nimble, affordable and accessible into the future. The pandemic “required ASCO to reconsider assumptions and prior decisions, and take unprecedented actions,” said Clifford Hudis, the society’s chief executive officer, at the meeting. While the cancer-focused companies continued to conduct R&D throughout the pandemic, their products saw revenue slashed. Fewer routine doctor visits and procedures led Merck and Bristol Myers blockbuster immuno-therapies, Keytruda and Opdivo, to underperform sales expectations as recently as the first quarter. However, health insurer Cigna Corp. said it made strides to drive patients to mammographies, colonoscopies, and cervical cancer screenings. The result: The amount of preventive care received by its members rose to match levels seen before the pandemic began, Cigna reported on May 7. Now, medical experts and analysts will await second-quarter results to see if the industry continues to bounce back. The medical field must place special emphasis on ensuring that cancer care in the post-Covid era is equitable, said Narjust Duma, a medical oncologist at the University of Wisconsin, in a presentation about treatment disparities amid the pandemic. “Disparities in cancer care persist. There are here. They haven’t gone anywhere, and during COVID-19, they only have worsened,” Duma said. “We’re going to see the consequences of the pandemic, particularly in vulnerable populations, many years from now. This story doesn’t end today.” — With assistance by Robert Langreth, Cristin Flanagan, and Emma Court