China General Nuclear Power Corp. said environmental indicators at and around its Taishan plant are normal, after CNN reported that a French company warned of an “imminent radiological threat” there. Unit 1 at the plant in Guangdong is operating normally and Unit 2 was reconnected to the grid last week after an overhaul, CGN said in a statement on the plant’s website. The units have a combined capacity of 3.3 gigawatts and came online in 2018 and 2019. French company Framatome warned the U.S. government of an “imminent radiological threat” at the plant, CNN reported, citing unnamed U.S. officials and documents the news network says it has reviewed. Framatome said in an email that it’s “supporting resolution of a performance issue with the Taishan Nuclear Power Plant,” adding that “according to the data available, the plant is operating within the safety parameters.” Its parent, Electricite de France SA, didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment. The documents include a letter seeking assistance sent to the U.S. Department of Energy by Framatome, CNN said. Framatome helped build and provides technical assistance to the plant about 130 kilometers (80 miles) west of Hong Kong. The letter has prompted several high-level meetings in Washington, as well as discussions between the U.S. and French governments and contact between the U.S. and Chinese governments, CNN said. U.S. officials do not believe the situation poses a severe safety threat to the public or workers at the plant, CNN said. CGN owns 51% of the Taishan venture, while EDF has a 30% stake. Chinese utility firm Guangdong Yuedian Group has the rest. The report came amid a power shortage in Guangdong, the country’s industrial hub, that has caused more than 20 cities to ration power to some companies and factories. China is the world’s third-biggest nuclear power market, after the U.S. and France, and has the most new reactors under construction. It’s never had a serious nuclear accident on domestic soil. — With assistance by Alfred Cang, and Francois De Beaupuy