Britain’s decision to extend the last remaining Covid-19 lockdown rules another month will cause barely a ripple in the pace of economic growth this year but put thousands of jobs at risk in the industries hit hardest by the pandemic. UKHospitality, which represents restaurants, hotels and bars, said its members will lose another 3 billion pounds ($4.2 billion) in sales in addition to the 87 billion pounds foregone during the pandemic, threatening 300,000 jobs across the industry. The British Chambers of Commerce said the decision will deliver a “hammer blow” to small companies already at the brink of bankruptcy. It also raises risks for that workers now enjoying government furlough benefits won’t be reabsorbed back into the workforce when that program ends. “The delay to the easing of restrictions is undoubtedly a huge disappointment for many employers,” said Joanne Frew, head of employment practice at the legal firm DWF Law LLP. “The true test will be in September when the government lifeline of furlough is withdrawn.” Furlough levels are falling as the economy emerges from lockdown Source: HM Revenue and Customs  Furlough payments helped limit the surge in unemployment when the government forced restaurants, hotels and all non-essential shops to close. With restrictions loosening since the end of March, those companies have started taking some workers back into full time jobs. Business groups are pressing for the government to extend support, especially a temporary break on taxes, until all curbs are dropped. Business failures in the hospitality sector will rise without further support and “getting this far will count for nought,” said UKHospitality CEO Kate Nicholls. Government wage support is expected to limit the rise in unemployment Source: Bank of England Note: Furlough program was extended by five months to Sept. 30 in March budget Pubs, restaurants and accommodation businesses face “incredible” levels of debt, including unpaid rent, she said. Nightclubs, which have been closed now for 15 months, are on the brink. Economists only see a minor delay in the recovery from last year’s recession. The move would mean slower growth than previously estimated in the third quarter, but the economy would then recoup some of the lost ground in the following three months, according to Dan Hanson of Bloomberg Economics. Long-term unemployment is rising despite the easing of restrictions Source: Office for National Statistics Note: Age 16 and over “The economy is much more resilient to restrictions than before. We’ve managed to come a long way,” according to KPMG Chief Economist Yael Selfin, who expects the impact of the decision to be minimal. Despite substantial pressure on some individual sectors, current restrictions are mostly relaxed and are affecting a small portion of the economy, she said. Hours after the government’s announcement, official data showed that U.K. companies have already stepped up hiring. The number of employees on company books surged 197,000 in May from April, the Office for National Statistics said. In the three months through April, the jobless rate fell to 4.7%, the lowest since the summer of 2020. Still, the spread of the more transmissible Delta variant in England has caused concerns over the risk of more delays if hospitalizations spike. This would be “much more damaging” to the economic outlook, according to Andrew Goodwin, chief U.K. economist at Oxford Economics. “If the relationship between cases and hospitalizations remains intact, then current restrictions could be extended or even reintroduced for sectors such as hospitality and non-essential retail,” he wrote in a report. “This scenario would have a more significant impact on the short-term growth outlook.”