U.S. stocks traded near record highs and bonds rallied as investors braced for a key inflation report that could provide clues on the direction of monetary policy. The S&P 500 fluttered around its May 7 record closing level, with megacap technology and biotech stocks lifting the benchmark index. The 10-year Treasury yield retreated below 1.5% after an afternoon auction of the notes. Equities have been trading in a tight range and Treasury yields have been easing in recent weeks as investors who believe accelerating inflation will be short-lived clash with those those who bet it will prove persistent enough to warrant tightening. For now, the Fed’s dovish stance is calming the markets. “Even if inflation comes out a little higher than Street expectations tomorrow, the Fed isn’t going to change its path,” said Esty Dwek, head of global market strategy at Natixis Investment Managers, said in a Bloomberg TV interview. “There’s a lot of wait-and-see going on and really just thinking it would take a lot to really surprise markets.” Seven of the main 11 S&P 500 industry groups advanced, led by health-care stocks. Johnson & Johnson Co., Merck & Co. Inc., Pfizer Inc. and Eli Lily & Co. were among the biggest contributors to the broader index’s advance. Biogen Inc. resumed a rally two days after getting regulatory approval for its Alzheimer’s drug. Bitcoin rose more than 8%, trading above $36,000. The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield declined as much as 6.3 basis points to 1.471%. The yield held below 1.5% after an auction of $38 billion of the notes Wednesday afternoon. The 30-year bond’s yield touched 2.148%, last seen March 1. LISTEN: Jonathan Golub, chief U.S. equity strategist for Credit Suisse, speaks with Tom Keene and Paul Sweeney on Bloomberg Radio. Meanwhile, a rally in commodities has stalled with global recovery remaining patchy, especially with the pandemic still spreading in the developing world. The Bloomberg Commodity Index, which shows returns on a basket of raw materials, fell 0.2% Shares edged up in China, where a measure of producer prices for May was at the highest since 2008 but consumer-price gains remained subdued. The nation is also considering imposing a cap on the price of thermal coal to contain high energy costs. U.K. property developers posted some of the biggest losses in europe weeks before a stamp-duty exemption was due to expire and demand was seen moderating. For market commentary, follow the MLIV blog. Here are key events to watch this week: These are some of the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Claire Ballentine, Nancy Moran, Andreea Papuc, and Srinivasan Sivabalan