For years, Wall Street has combed through reams of sentiment data to try to gauge how retail investors are feeling about stocks.Since meme-investing burst onto the scene, those efforts have included watching Reddit message boards to try to get a grip on how an army of small investors are approaching (and affecting) the market while tracking trading volume to gauge how much of it comes from investors on platforms like Robinhood. Analysts at Goldman Sachs led by John Marshall and Rocky Fishman have joined the effort, noting that: “While signals related to retail trading activity have been well studied over decades, there are new and significant elements of the trends that have developed over the past year. While only time will tell whether these trends represent a structural change, our analysis suggests retail trading activity continues to be a leading indicator (rather than contrarian).” The analysts use electronic trading data to attempt to capture the proportion of a stock’s overall trading volume that’s most likely be executed through payment-for-order-flow (the practice which allows  no-fee trading on Robinhood and other brokerages) and might therefore be attributed to retail investors, adding to a similar methodology that they’ve used previously to identify ‘smaller lot’ trading.Here’s what they say: “ …We believe retail trading activity is an indication of a large number of traders ‘paying attention’ to a stock. When a retail investor pays attention to a stock, they generally choose between ‘buying’ or ‘not-buying’ the stock (retail investors are generally not short sellers). This results in temporary net-buying flow from retail investors and pushes the stock up temporarily.Volatile stocks then attract the attention of institutional investors as they see opportunities to use their understanding of option market positioning, delta hedging requirements of market makers and fundamental valuation to position for outsized profits. At some point, retail traders become a smaller percentage of overall volume and the tailwind inherent in this “attention” signal fades.This is the point where institutional investors position for a (partial) mean reversion. In fact, many of the high-profile retail trading names show a significant drop in retail trading as a percentage of total volume in the days ahead of the ultimate peak and subsequent decline.Below, we show data for key stocks where we have identified outsized retail investor participation at periods over the past month… ”  The implication here is that small-lot trading often starts to fall before the peak in meme stocks’ share price, confirming that retail investors eventually ‘hand off’ to larger traders in driving the big moves in meme stocks. So all those diamond hands are important in sparking the initial move, but they’re not necessarily the thing that sends meme stocks shooting to the proverbial moon (or keeps them there for long).In that sense, the Goldman data shows just how successful the WallStreetBets strategy is in focusing interest from small retail investors to generate much bigger moves in stocks. It also shows the extent to which Wall Street is incorporating meme-investing themselves.