In the U.S., public transit ridership normally slumps in the summertime. With school out of session and many regular passengers taking vacations, it’s not a time when transit agencies normally launch big campaigns to attract riders. But this year, the slow season will be crucial. After 15 months in which many daily trips to workplaces, retailers and schools were stopped cold by the coronavirus pandemic, Americans are finally poised to venture back out. How many of them will choose transit? It’s hard to overstate the importance of that question, because we’re in the midst of an unprecedented period when millions of people are reevaluating their travel habits. And it won’t last long. Modal choices tend to be sticky; under normal circumstances people seldom switch between driving, transit and cycling unless they are experiencing a major life event like changing jobs, relocating or having a child. The reopening of U.S. states and cities now underway adds up to a massive population-wide life event. It’s been generations since so many people simultaneously reconsidered how they get around town. Those who now opt to take transit or ride a bike may form new habits around those activities. The same logic applies to driving; once people start commuting by car, they’re likely to keep doing it — in the process worsening congestion, pollution and street safety. If there is ever a time for local leaders to nudge residents toward transit and away from driving, this is it. (A caveat: Pretty much everyone agrees that the key to sustained transit ridership growth is providing reliable, frequent and accessible service. Thankfully, an infusion of federal funds has now allowed many agencies to bring service back to pre-pandemic levels.) Transit agencies have a brief window to convince people to consider transit as they restart their travels, and some have begun rolling out fresh marketing campaigns, like Chicago Transit Authority’s “We’re Ready When You’re Ready.” Those able to seize the moment can go much further. Here are a few tactics that could help them attract more people to buses and trains in the coming weeks — and, hopefully, for the months and years that follow. As anyone who has accepted a complimentary sample at a grocery store knows, people are more likely to buy something if they can taste it first. What works for cheese and potato chips applies to bus and train rides as well. Psychology research suggests that people generally prefer free travel to equally valuable discounts. (One study concluded that a free week of bikeshare is “worth” more than two weeks at half price.) Seeking to discourage returning commuters from driving, the city of Boston and the regional MBTA transit authority have offered $60 transit credits and two-month bikeshare passes to 1,000 workers across five small-business corridors. In the Las Vegas region, the Southern Nevada RTC distributed over 20,000 free weekly transit passes through employers participating in its Try Transit program in May, timed to capitalize on the rapid rebound of the local hospitality sector. (Disclosure: I have done advisory work with Southern Nevada RTC). In Australia, Sydney is considering a twist to the idea of free post-pandemic trips. After months of minimal coronavirus cases, Sydney has now largely reopened, but many workers continue to telework part-time. Many of those teleworkers prefer to stay home on Fridays and Mondays, leaving Sydney’s central business district comparatively deserted. Local leaders are exploring offering free transit on those two weekdays as a way to bring more people downtown. Note that these approaches differ from the proposals of universal free transit that have attracted attention in places like Los Angeles and Kansas City. Leaders in those cities have touted free transit as a way to discourage driving and provide a financial lift to low-income residents, who are likelier to use transit. But research suggests that riders are more concerned about reliability, speed and accessibility than cost. Evidence from Europe, where fare-free transit is more common than the United States, has been underwhelming. The lesson: Agencies would be wise to strategically pause fare collection in certain instances, rather than end it completely. A growing number of transit agencies now describe themselves as “mobility managers:” Rather than focusing only on getting people to ride the bus or subway, they support all potential alternatives to driving, including biking, walking and shared micromobility. Such agencies would consider it a win if a post-pandemic commuter opts not to drive, regardless of whether she becomes a bus rider or a cyclist (or someone who switches back and forth). Now could be an ideal time for them to adopt a rewards program that uses perks to encourage trips on transit as well as other climate-friendly modes. For the last two years, Miami-Dade Transit has worked with Velocia, a Canadian startup, to award digital points called “Velos” to those who take specific actions such as riding the local Citi Bike bikeshare system or boarding at off-peak times. Velos can be redeemed for a variety of transportation services, such as Bolt e-scooter trips and Getaround rental cars. “Public transit isn’t the only tool available to help people move throughout Miami-Dade County,” says Carlos Cruz-Cosas, assistant director at the Miami-Dade Department of Transportation and Public Works. “Velocia creates a marketplace to introduce people to other mobility options, and an incentive to try them out.” Other companies offer multimodal rewards programs as well. Miles, another startup, has partnered with transit systems in Jacksonville, Florida, and the Bay Area, with users able to redeem points for discounts at retailers (unlike Velocia, Miles also awards points for driving). Could such modest incentives be enough to prompt a city resident to change modes? Maybe! After all, there’s a whole cottage industry devoted to helping people collect and spend frequent flyer miles, and many airlines’ programs have tens of millions of members. Now seems like an opportune time to see if intra-urban rewards could be as powerful an incentive as inter-urban frequent traveler programs seem to be. Even though the coronavirus isn’t easily spread on physical surfaces, many remain squeamish about touching things (or people) when they leave home. That preference creates an opportunity for public transportation to shift passengers toward paying by flashing a mobile phone or tapping a credit card when they board. Compared to swiping a fare card or paying with cash, such options offer passengers a way to minimize physical contact, which could entice more people to ride while lockdown memories remain fresh. If so, that would be particularly welcome news for transit operators. People paying with contactless or mobile ticketing board faster, reducing the “dwell times” that accrue when a bus is pulled over at stops. And payments are often cheaper to process than cash, which can consume 10-15% of the value of bills and coins collected. An analysis of mobile ticketing in Tallahassee, Florida, found that bus drivers liked it too. Contactless payments — which can be made by credit or debit card in addition to smartphones — are less widely available than mobile ticketing in the United States, but they offer comparable benefits. Monterey-Salinas Transit in California recently became the first small American transit agency to offer contactless payments (it is also available in New York, Miami, Portland, and Chicago). Transit agencies could be accused of discrimination if they offered lower fares to riders paying with contactless or mobile ticketing (not everyone has access to a smart phone or credit card). But they can still advertise its availability and encourage passengers to try it. If they succeed, they could achieve a triple win: reduced physical contact, faster bus service, and cheaper payment processing. Prior to the pandemic several transit agencies — including those in Austin, the Twin Cities and Orange County, California — offered “Guaranteed Ride Home” programs to regular transit riders. These programs provide a kind of insurance if a rider urgently needs to travel at a time when bus or train service is unavailable (i.e., a mid-day trip to pick up a sick child at school, or a ride home after unexpectedly needing to work late). Ideally, they will enable more residents to opt for transit, secure in the knowledge that they can handle a sudden emergency without breaking their travel budget. Women could especially benefit, since they shoulder a disproportionate share of caregiving responsibilities. The value of a Guaranteed Ride Home program could be particularly resonant to riders on transit lines with sparse off-peak service, such as MARC’s Brunswick Line between Washington, D.C., and Martinsburg, West Virginia. Many commuter rail systems have recently curtailed service due to Covid, which creates longer service gaps for those who need to change travel plans. Little evidence currently exists about the potential of Guaranteed Ride Home programs to win over new riders, although what’s out there looks promising. But relatively few people seem to know about the programs or use them (a representative of Metro Transit, the transit agency of the Twin Cities, says that 161 people requested rides during the first quarter of 2020). That could change if the programs were more actively marketed. Agencies would have to pay out additional money in reimbursements if more riders use Guaranteed Ride Home programs, but their financial exposure would be limited if riders were capped at, say, four trips or $100 in reimbursements per year. And $100 to acquire a regular transit commuter could be a very good deal — especially with so many long-term travel habits up for grabs in the coming months. Still, the headwinds currently facing transit agencies can’t be underestimated. Applications for drivers’ licenses are rising, and rush hour traffic is returning with a vengeance in several cities. Although transit is widely considered to be safe for those vaccinated, a spate of ill-informed articles last year suggested otherwise, creating a lingering impression of risk. (Some agencies didn’t help their cause by encouraging riders to avoid crowded buses and trains long after the relative safety of transit travel was established.) That’s all the more reason for transit agencies to take action as workplaces reopen. Tactics like those outlined above are not a panacea, and there is no guarantee they will work. But the current window of opportunity won’t remain open for long; within a matter of months most people will have formed new travel habits, good or bad, and they will be hard to break. Right now transit agencies should capitalize on every chance they have to tip individual commuting decisions in their favor. David Zipper is a Visiting Fellow at the Harvard Kennedy School's Taubman Center for State and Local Government, where he examines the interplay between urban policy and new mobility technologies.