Brazil raised its benchmark interest rate by 75 basis points for the third consecutive time and opened the door to even faster increases as inflation expectations surge despite the world’s most aggressive monetary tightening cycle this year. The central bank unanimous decision on Wednesday took the Selic to 4.25%, in line with all 38 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey and also policy makers’ own guidance. Since March, borrowing costs have gone up by a total of 225 basis points. The bank sees another 75 basis-point hike at its next meeting in August but didn’t rule out bigger increases if the inflation outlook worsens further. “A deterioration of inflation expectations for the relevant horizon may require a quicker reduction of the monetary stimulus,” policy makers wrote in a statement accompanying their decision. The central bank also scrapped plans to keep some monetary stimulus in the economy, saying a normalization of the policy rate to a level considered neutral is now more appropriate. The decision contrasts with that of the U.S. Federal Reserve, which hours earlier held interest rates near zero, signaling two increases by the end of 2023. Policy makers led by Roberto Campos Neto are hiking rates aggressively as consumer prices near a five-year high in Latin America’s largest economy. They are battling inflationary pressures from soaring commodity costs and also higher electricity bills brought on by a severe drought. At the same time, emergency spending amid the coronavirus pandemic is stoking demand. “Brazil’s challenge is to not allow inflation expectations for 2022 and 2023 to become unanchored,” Alvaro Frasson, economist at BTG Pactual SA, said before the central bank’s decision. Read More: World’s Most Hawkish Central Banker Is Losing Inflation War Annual inflation sped up to 8.06% in May, above economist expectations and also more than double this year’s goal of 3.75%. Analysts surveyed by the central bank see consumer prices above target through 2022. Meanwhile, the real has offered some respite to policy makers, strengthening by about 6% since the last rate-setting meeting, thus easing pressures on wholesale prices and making imports less expensive. — With assistance by Rafael Mendes