In state capitols and city halls across the U.S., local officials are drawing up ambitious plans on how to spend the $350 billion in federal aid they’re receiving under the American Rescue Plan. Their most urgent need is using the funds to address the impact of Covid-19, provide relief to people and businesses and address their own financial straits caused by the pandemic. But with tax revenue largely recovering and the economy reopening, states are able to go beyond covering deficits and direct Covid response, and use the funds to address broader problems exacerbated by the pandemic. They can invest in projects that have gone underfunded, like water infrastructure and broadband services. Some cities are even considering using the funds for new ambitious initiatives, like providing recurring cash payments for low-income residents. The infusion of cash is driving optimism in city halls and statehouses and will likely mark an end to the budget-cutting that has weighed on the economy during the pandemic. Within cities and states, officials are having lengthy discussions and arguments about the best ways to use the money. There’s also the larger debate in Washington, D.C., about whether the scale of the Covid-19 relief funds could cause the economy to overheat. Tens of thousands of governments get aid under American Rescue Plan Source: Treasury Department  Local officials speaking out on the funds are touting the chance to make a years-long impact in their communities. Governor Jared Polis called it a “once in a generation” opportunity for his state to recover from the pandemic and help future Coloradans. Below are some highlights from the plans laid out by state and local officials so far. In its interim rule on the funds, the U.S. Treasury says governments can provide their own stimulus checks to residents, adding that they could consider the government’s previous payments as a guide of how much to give. Cherokee Nation, which is receiving $1.8 billion of aid, will send $2,000 to all of the more than 392,800 citizens in multiple states. North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper, a Democrat, proposed grants of $250 or $500 to help middle- and low-income residents as part of his plan for the state’s more than $5 billion of federal aid. And officials in Chicago are  considering a proposal that would provide recurring payments to low-income residents, known as basic income, funded out of the federal aid. Philadelphia City Controller Rebecca Rhynhart also raised the possibility of a basic income pilot program, and urged the city to devote some of the money to anti-poverty efforts in a May 27 statement. These cities  would join a dozen  others that are launching basic income pilots this year. Read more: Guaranteed Income Gains Popularity After Covid-19 Treasury is encouraging cities to provide targeted relief to people who have been historically disadvantaged or disproportionately affected by Covid-19. For example, broadband projects should target underserved households or businesses, the rule says. The document cites an executive order by President Joe Biden in January that states the federal government’s responsibility is to advance civil rights, racial justice and equity. Colorado’s plan would use some of the aid to help lending institutions that cater to historically under-served entrepreneurs. It also includes grants to small businesses that would prioritize rural, women, minority and veteran-owned businesses. Fixing shoddy internet service — and providing better access to it — is a key area that governments can spend the federal aid on. The Treasury even offers guidance to states and localities on the optimal upload and download speed they should be targeting as part of broadband projects. At least eight state governors included broadband-related proposals in their plans. In Montana, where one in three residents don’t have access to broadband, the state is already moving forward with plans to use $275 million of the funds for broadband. Governor Greg Gianforte signed a law on May 11 creating the program. A slew of Republican governors have  said they’ll stop participating in a federal program providing an extra $300 in unemployment benefits, saying it gives people incentive to stay jobless.  Citing those concerns, the Republican governors of Montana and Oklahoma announced they’d use federal aid to also provide a $1,200 bonus to unemployed workers who take a job. And Connecticut Governor Ned Lamont, a Democrat, in May unveiled a similar $1,000 bonus program financed through aid from the Cares Act. Alaska Governor Mike Dunleavy in April proposed using 15% of his state’s federal aid allocation to help the tourism industry in the state, which is a popular cruise destination. The economic loss from losing the cruise ship season in 2020 and 2021 amounts to $6 billion, with over 2,100 businesses at risk, according to his office. State officials have been traveling through the state to get feedback on the aid. The state’s lieutenant governor said in a May report that the need to help businesses hit by the tourism downturn is “immediate and substantial.” Some of the plans are hyper-local. Maine Governor Janet Mills is proposing to use some of the state’s $1 billion aid infusion to make investments in heritage industries in the state, like farming and fishing. For example, her plan offers $20 million for fishery and wildlife infrastructure as fishing has surged during the pandemic. In North Carolina, where NASCAR events are a big driver of tourism, Cooper wants to devote a small portion of the state’s aid to motorsports venues that have been affected by the pandemic. He proposed that $10 million go to Charlotte Motor Speedway, where drivers just competed in the Coca-Cola 600, according to his recommendations to lawmakers dated May 19. Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan says the city could create a $426 million fund with the money to combat intergenerational poverty, among other goals. That could include a program that hires seniors to mentor families. Over a third of the population lives in poverty, according to the Census Bureau. But before spending the aid, government officials are also looking to talk to their residents. Detroit is holding 25 community meetings over 25 days to get feedback on the program. In the months ahead, governors and lawmakers will be ramping up discussions on how best to spend the money, which can be expended through 2026, said Emily Maher, a policy associate at the National Conference of State Legislatures. “States can take a step back and really think about how to use those funds in the long term,” she said. — With assistance by Shruti Singh