U.S. infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci said it was possible the world would never find out the precise origin of the coronavirus pandemic, after President Joe Biden last month ordered a new 90-day review from the intelligence community about the possible origins of the virus. The European Union will encourage World Trade Organization members to phase out export restrictions for vaccines, but will stop short of supporting an American-backed proposal to suspend intellectual property rights meant to boost the supply of Covid shots. New infections in India held near the lowest level since early April, as the country ordered 300 million vaccine doses from local manufacturer Biological-E. Japan led contributions totaling $2.4 billion aimed at closing a funding gap that has hampered the distribution of doses to poorer nations. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Type CVID <GO> on the terminal for global data on cases and deaths. U.S. infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci said it was possible the world would never find out the precise origin of the coronavirus pandemic, after President Joe Biden last month ordered a new 90-day review from the intelligence community about the possible origins of the virus. Fauci said during an appearance on MSNBC that while he feels it is still “more likely” that the virus jumped from animals to humans, “we still don’t know what the origin is.” Fauci said that reports that three researchers from the Wuhan Institute of Virology became sick in November 2019 gave more credence to the possibility that Covid-19 may have emerged from a “lab leak,” but said those reports still needed to be verified, while maintaining that animal to human transition happens “all the time.” “You need to keep looking for the link and you need to keep looking for evidence that it’s something else like a lab leak,” Fauci said. “Those are open possibilities. We may not ever find out what that is.” China can’t begin to ease restrictions like the U.S. even after inoculating a high level of its population because it has no way of analyzing how well its vaccines have worked in its largely Covid-free population, according to a top health official. Despite vaccinating more than 40% of its citizens with at least one dose, Feng Zijian, the deputy director general of China’s Center for Disease Control and Prevention, said China “has some unique difficulties” and is unable to match the U.S.’s ability to examine vaccine effectiveness in real-time as cases and deaths ebb. Hungary has started talks with Russia about the production of the Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine, according to Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto. Hungary is looking to manufacture the Russian shot at a new factory from the end of 2022, Szijjarto said in a Facebook video from the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum. Szijjarto held talks last week in China about producing the Sinopharm vaccine as well. A parliamentary committee rebuked the Swedish government for mistakes in handling the Covid-19 pandemic in a fresh blow to the minority cabinet whose initial hands-off approach earned domestic and international criticism. The government acted too slow to ramp up testing and didn’t do enough to protect the elderly and to safeguard access to protective equipment during the crisis, which has claimed the lives of more than 14,000 people in the country of 10 million, the parliament’s constitutional watchdog said on Thursday. Chinese firm Walvax Biotechnology Co. will be doing mass-scale Phase 3 clinical trials for its mRNA vaccine candidate in more than seven countries, Chief Executive Officer Li Yunchun told Bloomberg. The advanced human trials will be in countries across South America, Southeast Asia, South Asia and Central Asia, Li said without giving specifics. The European Union will encourage World Trade Organization members to phase out export restrictions for vaccines, but will stop short of supporting an American-backed proposal to suspend intellectual property rights meant to boost the supply of Covid shots. The EU will propose to the WTO at a June 8-9 meeting that all 164 members decrease restrictive measures related to health products, expand the production of vaccine facilities and support an easing of regulatory hurdles, according to a draft proposal seen by Bloomberg. Japan is planning later this month to send some of its Covid-19 vaccine to Taiwan, which has been struggling to procure its own supplies and blamed China for impeding shipments of the shots. Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi told parliament Thursday that Taiwan has an urgent need for supplies of the vaccine until July, when its domestic production will be ramped up. The shortage amid rising case numbers in Taiwan has raised fears of a health crisis that could hurt its semiconductor production, which is crucial for global industry. Singapore says it has preliminarily confirmed 35 new local cases of Covid-19 infection, the highest since mid-May. Twenty-two of them were ones the government disclosed late yesterday as connected to a cluster at the MINDSville@Napiri adult disability home. Of the remaining 13 local infections, 11 were linked to prior cases and two were not linked. Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security Senior Scholar Jennifer Nuzzo concerns about a potential backlash over vaccine passports and health risks for unvaccinated individuals. The Bloomberg School of Public Health is supported by Michael R. Bloomberg, founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News. Source: Bloomberg In another Hong Kong push to improve the city’s vaccination rate, Cathay Pacific Airways is conducting a lucky draw in which the winner can host a private party on an Airbus A321neo flight around Hong Kong. The winner and companions must be fully vaccinated, said the airline, which is also giving away 20 million reward miles to vaccinated residents. Cathay is providing two days of leave to Hong Kong-based ground staff who get fully vaccinated. More than 80% of Cathay pilots and around 50% of cabin crew have booked or received vaccinations, the carrier said Thursday. Reliance Industries Ltd. is working on a new Covid-19 drug and cheaper testing kits as the conglomerate owned by Asia’s richest man Mukesh Ambani builds an armamentarium against the pathogen which has ravaged India in the past year. India’s most-valuable company is exploring use of a tapeworm drug, Niclosamide, as a cure for Covid-19, according to its annual report. Its diagnostic kits -- R-Green and R-Green Pro -- have been approved by India’s apex medical research body and it has designed a process to make sanitizers at one-fifth the market cost, Reliance said in the report. Hong Kong lowered the eligible age for BioNTech’s Covid-19 vaccines to 12, according to a government statement. Inoculation arrangements for people aged 12-15 will be announced early next week Taiwan reported 364 newly confirmed domestic cases on Thursday and added 219 local infections to previous tallies due to test result delays. It’s too early to say whether Taiwan needs to further raise the Covid alert level, Health Minister Chen Shih-chung said at a briefing. Taiwan’s Cabinet earlier approved a plan for NT$260 billion ($9.4 billion) in Covid-19 relief measures, including about NT$58.4 billion for the economics ministry to distribute as subsidies for companies to cover salaries and operating costs. India added 134,154 new cases in a day, close to the lowest number since April 8, government data showed. The country’s death toll from the pandemic climbed by 2,887 to 337,989. Covax, the nonprofit aiming to provide the world equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines, is struggling to secure enough doses to reach its goal of providing 1.8 billion shots globally. Bloomberg’s Corinne Gretler has the details. ( Source: Bloomberg Vietnam’s health ministry said the country will have more than 120 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines this year. The total includes 5 million doses from Moderna Inc., 20 million doses of the Sputnik V vaccine and 31 million doses of the vaccine developed by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE, it said. Vietnam will also acquire 30 million AstraZeneca Plc vaccine doses and 38.9 million doses through the Covax initiative, the World Health Organization-backed effort to buy and distribute vaccines to low- and middle-income nations. India ordered 300 million coronavirus vaccine doses from local manufacturer Biological-E as Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government comes under pressure from the nation’s Supreme Court to cover more of the population. An advance of 15 billion rupees ($205 million) will be paid to the Hyderabad-based company, the government said Thursday. Phase 3 trials are currently on and the firm will prepare the order between August and December. The Philippines said President Rodrigo Duterte got a commitment from Russian President Vladimir Putin for more Sputnik V deliveries on a phone call Wednesday. A statement from Duterte’s office said the Philippine leader also sought greater cooperation with Russia on trade and defense. The Southeast Asian nation has so far received 80,000 doses of Russia’s Covid-19 shot. Workers lift boxes of the Sputnik V COVID-19 vaccine, developed by the Gamaleya National Research Center for Epidemiology and Microbiology and the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), at the cargo terminal at Sheremetyevo International Airport OAO in Moscow, Russia, on Thursday, Feb. 11, 2021. Photographer: Andrey Rudakov/Bloomberg Bahrain started giving booster shots to vulnerable citizens who have been inoculated with Sinopharm vaccine using a different vaccine made by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE, Dow Jones reported, citing the country’s undersecretary of health Waleed Khalifa al Manea. The country is fighting a sharp resurgence of Covid-19. More than 90% of those hospitalized in the latest wave haven’t been vaccinated. Chinese drugmaker Sinopharm’s vaccine has accounted for more than 60% of Bahrain’s inoculations and was providing a high degree of protection, the report said. The government started offering the boosters at the end of May, according to the report. — With assistance by Stuart Wallace, Angus Whitley, Will Davies, Natalie Lung, Stephanie Phang, Kathleen Hunter, Justin Sink, Zoltan Simon, and Danielle Bochove