Vaccinating more people against Covid-19 is always going to be a good thing but the benefits vary widely by state, according to a new computer simulation whose results are charted below. New York would get the biggest reduction in cases from getting 70% of its population fully vaccinated vs. 50%, followed closely by Florida and North Carolina, while South Dakota would see the smallest benefit, the simulation says. The simulation was performed by Epistemix Inc., a Pittsburgh-based company spun out of the University of Pittsburgh Graduate School of Public Health that performs agent-based modeling. To track epidemics, Epistemix simulates the interactions of millions of imaginary people who are statistically similar to the actual U.S. population, taking into account their demographic characteristics and where they live, work, or go to school. Epistemix calculates that in the eight weeks after getting 70% of the state population fully vaccinated, New York state would have 97.6% fewer total new cases of Covid-19 than it would have over eight weeks if only 50% of the state population were fully vaccinated. Florida is close behind at 97.5% fewer cases with 70% vaccination, followed by North Carolina at 97.4% fewer cases. The states that get the most benefit from vaccination tend to be states that suffered few cases of the disease, so that a small percentage of the population has acquired natural immunity; states that are densely populated; and states where more contagious variants of the SARS-CoV-2 virus are more prevalent, according to John Cordier, the chief executive officer of Epistemix. New York had many cases early on, but it is densely populated and has exposure to more contagious variants of the virus. South Dakota, in contrast, has a high rate of natural immunity because it’s had a lot of cases of the disease. For the nation as a whole there are huge benefits from getting to 70% vaccination, Cordier says. “Once you reach 70%, there are effectively no cases of infection even at large events with 100,000 people a day,” he says. “There are fewer people who are susceptible to the virus. The virus can’t find people to infect to then keep spreading. If it can’t get to the first person it can’t get to the person after that.” As of June 10, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 51.9% of the U.S. population had received at least one dose and 42.6% had been fully vaccinated (which in some cases involves just one dose). Here’s a chart of all 50 states prepared from the computer simulation by Epistemix: Decline in total cases over eight weeks with 70% vaccination vs. 50% vaccination Source: Epistemix Inc.  