India’s daily Covid-19 cases dropped below 100,000 for the first time in two months as Prime Minister Narendra Modi vowed to speed up the hard-hit nation’s inoculation drive. Canada is set to relax quarantine rules for vaccinated travelers as pressure mounts on the government to ease restrictions with summer tourism season approaching. The U.K.’s plan to ease a lockdown could be delayed by two weeks on concerns about new virus strains. Airlines from Britain and the U.S. issued a joint plea for the resumption of travel between the two countries, saying government curbs on the world’s most lucrative air route are holding back an economic recovery. China is in talks to produce Covid-19 vaccines with 10 countries and is encouraging vaccine manufacturers to transfer technology to poorer nations. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Type CVID <GO> on the terminal for global data on cases and deaths. India’s new infections dipped to less than 100,000 cases for the first time since April 6, signaling that the country’s deadly second wave that overwhelmed its hospitals and crematoriums has eased. The country with the second-largest number of cases reported 86,498 new infections Tuesday, also lower than the peak in September last year during the first wave of Covid-19. The total tally rose to 29 million while Covid-related deaths rose by 2,123 to 351,309, according to latest data from India’s health ministry. The second wave, which saw a record 414,188 new cases on May 7, has been tapering sharply. Experts, however, have emphasized the need for continuous genome sequencing to watch for any new virus mutations that can thwart this recovery. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced free shots for all people over 18 years, a move prompted by criticism of his administration’s handling of the second wave and a botched vaccination roll out. A Health worker inoculates an Amazon employee in Bangalore on June 5. The U.K.’s plan to ease a lockdown could be delayed by two weeks as cabinet ministers are getting pessimistic following a briefing from the government’s chief medical officer and chief scientific officer, the Times of London reported, citing a cabinet source. The officials gave a “fairly grim” briefing to the cabinet ministers, emphasizing concerns over the rate of transmission for new coronavirus strains and that vaccinations didn’t give 100% protection. Earlier, Health Secretary Matt Hancock said it was too early to say whether a planned easing of coronavirus restrictions on June 21 can go ahead. China is discussing cooperating to produce Covid-19 vaccines with 10 countries while encouraging vaccine manufacturers to transfer technology to developing countries, according to state media Xinhua, citing an interview with the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology. Currently, three Chinese vaccine makers have carried out joint production with eight countries, MIIT’s official Mao Junfeng said. The World Health Organization has called for the boosting of domestic vaccine production in low-income countries so they don’t rely on importing shots from wealthier nations in an emergency. The seeds of this year’s massive coronavirus death toll in India were sown by a premature declaration of victory after the first wave in 2020, a series of government mistakes and rampant misinformation on social media. Source: Bloomberg The Philippines has cleared Sinopharm Group Co.’s coronavirus vaccine, adding to the more than 15 million doses expected to arrive in the coming weeks as the nation aims to accelerate inoculation. Indonesia has asked for more Covid vaccines from China through Covax. The Indonesian government has offered to become the production hub for China’s vaccines in Asean as it seeks to improve collaboration. The Thai government is expected to sign purchase agreements with manufacturers for 20 million doses of Pfizer Inc. vaccines and 5 million doses of Johnson & Johnson this week. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s government is crafting plans to loosen the current 14-day isolation period for border-crossers who’ve had two vaccine doses, according to people familiar with the discussions. Travelers entering Canada would still be tested for the virus and may be required to quarantine for a shorter period. The plan is expected be announced within days, though the timing could shift. It isn’t clear when the changes would be implemented or whether Canada will open up its borders to non-U.S. travelers at the same time. A vaccination site at the Kew Gardens hockey rink in Toronto. Photographer: Rick Madonik/Toronto Star/Getty Images Chinese markets linked to some of the earliest Covid-19 cases were illegally selling a range of wildlife from which the coronavirus may have spread, according to a study published less than two weeks after U.S. President Joe Biden ordered a deeper probe into the pandemic’s genesis. Mink, masked palm civets, raccoon dogs, Siberian weasels, hog badgers and Chinese bamboo rats were among 38 animal species sold live at markets in Wuhan from May 2017 to November 2019, researchers said Monday in a paper in the journal Scientific Reports originally submitted last October. “While we caution against the mis-attribution of Covid-19’s origins, the wild animals on sale in Wuhan suffered poor welfare and hygiene conditions and we detail a range of other zoonotic infections they can potentially vector,” lead author Xiao Xiao, from the Lab Animal Research Center at Hubei University of Chinese Medicine in Wuhan, and colleagues wrote. A Covid care center for infected patients in New Delhi on May 23. Photographer: Anindito Mukherjee/Getty Images The coronavirus variant that drove India’s devastating Covid-19 epidemic is the most infectious to emerge so far. Doctors now want to know if it’s also more severe. Hearing impairment, severe gastric upsets and blood clots leading to gangrene, symptoms not typically seen in Covid patients, have been linked by doctors in India to the so-called Delta variant. In England and Scotland, early evidence suggests the now-dominant strain carries a higher risk of hospitalization. “We need more scientific research to analyze if these newer clinical presentations are linked to B.1.617 or not,” said Abdul Ghafur, an infectious disease physician at the Apollo Hospital in Chennai, southern India’s largest city. Ghafur said he is seeing more Covid-19 patients with diarrhea now than in the initial wave of the epidemic. 23andMe Inc. CEO Anne Wojcicki discusses the company’s latest finding of a genetic variant associated with the loss of smell and taste among Covid-19 patients. Source: Bloomberg Airlines from Britain and the U.S. issued a joint plea for the resumption of travel between the two countries, saying government curbs on the world’s most lucrative air route are holding back an economic recovery. Leisure and business trips could restart without undermining efforts to combat Covid-19, the heads of Delta Air Lines Inc., United Airlines Holdings Inc., American Airlines Group Inc. and JetBlue Airways Corp. said Monday. They were joined by counterparts from British Airways and Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. While carriers have been pitching for a resumption of trans-Atlantic travel since last summer, the latest push comes days before President Joe Biden is set to attend the G-7 summit in England. Moderna Inc. applied for a conditional marketing authorization in the European Union that would allow its vaccine to be given to adolescents, after the company found the shot was highly effective in the age group. Moderna said Monday it had filed for the clearance in 12- to 17-year-olds with EU regulators and was planning to apply for the equivalent status -- an emergency-use authorization -- with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The company has also asked Canadian regulators to authorize the shot for that age group. Motorists get swabbed for Covid-19 at a checkpoint in Surabaya, East Java on June 6. Photographer: Juni Kriswanto/AFP/Getty Images Indonesia added 6,993 cases on Monday, the most since March 4, as the government warned that new infections are set to keep picking up until June or July. The expected resurgence after the Eid holiday in late May could last for about five to seven weeks as people gradually return from their hometowns, Health Minister Budi Gunadi Sadikin said. About half of the 72,000 beds allocated for Covid-19 patients have been filled, he added. — With assistance by Andreea Papuc, Bhuma Shrivastava, Suzi Ring, Jason Gale, Kait Bolongaro, and Claire Che