Most Asian stocks rose with U.S. equity futures Wednesday after reassuring comments on inflation and monetary policy from Federal Reserve officials bolstered investor sentiment. Treasury yields held declines. Technology shares helped MSCI Inc.’s Asia-Pacific index climb for a second day, though Japanese equities edged back. European futures fluctuated and U.S. equity contracts advanced after both the S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100 posted gains. Overnight, Fed Chair Jerome Powell reiterated his view that inflation pressures will be transitory even after a notable increase in recent months. He added the Fed would be patient in waiting to lift borrowing costs. The dollar strengthened. The currencies of Australia and New Zealand retreated on stepped up coronavirus curbs. Sydney will impose new restrictions to fight the Delta variant, while Wellington will move to a higher alert level. Markets have stabilized after being buffeted by a hawkish shift in the Fed’s policy outlook as the recovery from the pandemic stokes price pressures. Officials have since sought to emphasize that the central bank is continuing to support the economy with asset purchases and low interest rates to make progress toward employment and inflation goals. The Fed’s shift last week to acknowledge higher inflation and pull forward its rate hike projections is “a reflection of more positive longer-term dynamics,” BlackRock Investment Institute strategists led by Jean Boivin wrote in a report. “We believe the Fed’s new outlook will not translate into significantly higher policy rates any time soon. This, combined with the powerful restart, underpins our pro-risk stance.” In testimony to the House Select Subcommittee Tuesday, Powell said price increases recently were bigger than expected but will likely wane. He also acknowledged the uncertainty around that view. Earlier Tuesday, New York Fed President John Williams noted that a discussion about raising interest rates is still “way off in the future.” Meantime, his Cleveland counterpart Loretta Mester said she wants to see additional employment gains for the next several months before assessing whether the U.S. economy has achieved the progress required to taper bond purchases. Oil traded above $73 a barrel in the wake of a report pointing to another decline in U.S. crude stockpiles. Other commodities such as copper also climbed. Bitcoin rebounded, rising past $30,000 after earlier briefly erasing gains for the year. For more market commentary, follow the MLIV blog. Here are some events to watch this week: These are some of the main moves in financial markets: — With assistance by Rita Nazareth, Vildana Hajric, and Cormac Mullen