The bond selloff continued Monday as Treasury yields climbed and sovereign debt slid in Australia and New Zealand. Asian stocks opened higher amid positive news on vaccine efficacy. Treasury yields extended last week’s advance, while Australia’s 10-year bond yield climbed to the highest in almost a year. Japanese equities outperformed and shares also rose in South Korea. S&P 500 contracts fluctuated after the gauge slipped Friday. The dollar edged lower. Crude oil rose, trading near $60 a barrel as wells slowly restarted in Texas after being hit by a big freeze. Bitcoin notched another record over the weekend. Copper added to gains in a sign of optimism on the global recovery. A global bond selloff on expectations of rising inflation as the world economy recovers from the pandemic has turned the spotlight back on stretched equity valuations. Investors are wondering how much higher the reflation trade will drive up yields, and will be monitoring this week’s testimony from Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell for any sign that he’s troubled by steeper long-term borrowing costs. A further rally in equities “is going to create increasing levels of concern,” said Simon Ballard, chief economist at First Abu Dhabi Bank. “It’s driven by, on one side, stimulus expectations from Mr. Biden and also the expectation of that continued dovish rhetoric and more acceptance of early stages of inflation from the Fed before even thinking of moving to a tightening bias.” A U.S. stimulus package of around $1.9 trillion is heading for a House vote this week and the Biden administration could unveil a multitrillion-dollar recovery package in March that funds infrastructure and possibly an Obamacare expansion. Meanwhile, the Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE Covid-19 vaccine appeared to stop the vast majority of recipients in Israel from infection, providing the first real-world indication that the immunization will curb transmission of the coronavirus. Some key events to watch this week: These are some of the main moves in markets: