At the Twin Parks complex for seniors in the Bronx, residents say they had little to no heat this winter. At Stuyvesant Gardens in Brooklyn, rats have taken over a playground and are coming inside the building. These are just two of the 300  New York City Housing Authority developments that are falling apart. NYCHA needs $40 billion to renovate apartment buildings built mostly between 1945 and 1970 and now plagued by mold, lead paint, vermin and elevator and heat outages. Taxpayers are on the hook for that money, and the cost of repairing the city’s housing projects rises by $1 billion annually. U.S. President Joe Biden can only help so much: The $1.7 trillion infrastructure plan he’s proposed to help rebuild the country after the pandemic has $40 billion allotted for all U.S. public housing, not just New York, and its passage is far from certain. Putting off the repairs not only boosts their cost, it increases the chances that NYCHA apartments will be declared uninhabitable, potentially pushing thousands more residents onto the streets. New York’s projects house 400,000 of the city’s poorest residents, a figure about equal to the population of Cleveland. Adding even a fraction of them to the ranks of the homeless would be disastrous in a city where 50,000 people live in shelters and tens of thousands more sleep on the street or the subway. New York City spends $3.5 billion annually on homelessness. “If we don’t figure out a way to fix public housing in New York, we’re going to lose 178,000 units of the most affordable housing we have and there is no mayoral plan that would ever be able to replace that housing,” said Rafael Cestero, president of the  Community Preservation Corporation, a New York City affordable housing lender. The eight leading Democratic candidates for New York City mayor have pledged to increase city spending on public housing to at least $1.5 billion annually, a $900 million increase from Mayor Bill de Blasio’s proposed budget for the fiscal year starting July 1. But that’s just a fraction of the hole the city needs to fill, and many of the candidates leading at the polls are relatively vague on how they will raise extra money. Andrew Yang says on his website that he will fight to get funds from the federal government. Eric Adams proposes raising money by allowing developers to build new buildings above current housing projects, known as selling air rights. He says that could generate $8 billion, citing a 2019 report by the Regional Plan Association. In 2020, NYCHA raised just $28 million in two air rights deals, according to authority officials. Only two candidates want to fully move forward with NYCHA’s plans that could raise more than $15 billion for the agency and don’t rely as heavily on Washington: Kathryn Garcia, who de Blasio brought in as interim chair, and Shaun Donovan, New York City’s former housing commissioner under Mayor Michael Bloomberg. Bloomberg is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News. Both Garcia and Donovan want to continue with a controversial effort to transfer 62,000 of the authority’s apartment units to public-private partnerships that would manage the developments and finance repairs. They also endorse NYCHA’s plan to create a public trust that would issue debt backed by revenue from federal housing vouchers to speed up renovations of the 110,000 remaining units. “NYCHA doesn’t need a new plan. We have a plan. It will work. We have to get repairs in place right now,” said Garcia at a March mayoral forum. Read more: American Has a Housing Mess and President Biden Wants to Fix It Donovan has proposed as much as $2 billion per year for public housing in the city’s budget. Former civil rights attorney Maya Wiley has said she’ll make an additional one-time investment of $2 billion. But candidates Scott Stringer, Wiley and Dianne Morales echo the concerns of residents who are deeply distrustful of the housing authority and fear private managers would increase evictions. “People want repairs, not privatization, and we should be able to make repairs without privatizing public housing,” said Stringer, the city comptroller. New York City could get more than $20 billion under Biden’s infrastructure plan, “with more to come,” Stringer said. Stringer also wants to divert $45 million a year to NYCHA from the agency that governs Battery Park City in Lower Manhattan for emergency repairs. The proposal would require approval from the comptroller and governor. Even before the pandemic, which upended the lives of thousands of frontline workers and seniors who live in public housing, NYCHA was in crisis. In 2018, the federal government sued NYCHA alleging the 80-year-old authority violated basic federal heath and safety regulations, including protecting children from toxic lead paint. An agreement was reached that required the authority to overhaul management and remedy lead paint hazards, mold growth, pest infestations, and inadequate heating and elevator service. A federal monitor oversees NYCHA’s compliance and the city must contribute $2.2 billion in extra funding through 2027. However, the pandemic slowed progress: At the end of April the authority had 490,000 open orders for repairs, up 30%  from last year. Yang, as well as former Citigroup Inc. investment banker Ray McGuire who is running as centrist, say that NYCHA’s plans to raise money need more input from residents. “Not enough has been done to gather tenant insight,” said Morales’ campaign. The non-profit executive would appoint a resident as NYCHA chair. “Residents must be at the table and given the space to exercise their decision-making authority and rights.”