As President Joe Biden’s administration prepared to unleash $350 billion of aid for states and local governments last week, Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said the funds would head off a repeat of the painful budget-cutting that slowed the nation’s recovery from the last recession. The same day, in Sacramento, California, Governor Gavin Newsom delivered a very different message: Thanks to the surging incomes of the wealthiest residents, the state would have a $76 billion surplus to plow into free universal preschool, helping the homeless and the biggest tax rebate in the state’s history. Never has there appeared to be a bigger gulf between America’s capitals and Washington, with federal officials making the case for an unprecedented rescue even after many governments saw a surprising financial turnaround before reopening from the pandemic. That’s given governors the unusual job of pumping billions of dollars into their economies to stoke the recovery or ameliorate the inequalities of class and race that it exaggerated. “We’ve never done anything like this,” Marc Goldwein, senior policy director for the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, said of the scale of the aid. “The goal in the past was to help states weather the losses they were going to face. This is not only reversing those losses, but putting states far ahead.” Federal aid to states under the American Rescue Plan Source: U.S. Department of the Treasury Note: Map does not include Washington, D.C. The federal stimulus efforts since Covid-19 struck have prevented governments from facing a fiscal crisis like the ones that followed the last two downturns. With the stock market surging last year and higher paid Americans able to work from home, tax revenue held up far better than initially feared. By February, a majority of states saw revenue completely rebound from the pandemic, according to the Pew Charitable Trusts. That’s led to a steady stream of positive news as tax collections come in. Illinois, whose chronic fiscal shortfalls have left it with the lowest credit rating among U.S. states, this month boosted its revenue forecast by $1.5 billion above its February projection after collections surged through April. Connecticut won its first bond-rating upgrades in two decades. In Texas, officials are preparing for a $725 million surplus, a shift from the nearly $1 billion deficit it predicted four months ago. The turnaround is leaving states empowered to use their share of Biden’s rescue package to enact home-grown stimulus measures, rehire laid off workers, or help lower-income residents who are still struggling with the impacts of the pandemic. The Treasury Department has given them broad leeway to use it for everything from stimulus checks to investments in certain infrastructure projects. Gene Sperling, who was selected by Biden to oversee the distribution of the $1.9 trillion rescue program, said the aid will allow governments to help in-need communities and avoid an economic recovery that leaves lower-income Americans behind. “This is not about just hitting higher growth numbers,” Sperling told reporters on May 10. Governments have been slow to announce specific plans for the funds, with many waiting on the guidance released by the Treasury Department this month. But such proposals have started to roll out. Virginia Governor Ralph Northam said the $4.3 billion his state is set to receive is coming as revenues are rising and unemployment is falling. So this month, the Democrat and legislative leaders said in a joint statement that they want to direct the aid to improving public health, helping small businesses, shoring up an unemployment trust fund, fixing school infrastructure and expanding broadband Internet service to regions without it. In Chicago, officials are considering a proposal to send direct checks to 5,000 low-income residents to help tackle poverty. In nearby Ohio, Republican Governor Mike DeWine is steering some of the state’s existing federal money to offer $1 million jackpots to residents who get vaccinated, an effort to sway holdouts and hasten his state’s comeback. But few have so far laid out as ambitious a plan as California’s Newsom, a Democrat who’s likely facing a recall election this year. With the state’s wealthiest residents reaping big gains from the stock market, he announced a massive spending plan with far-reaching impacts. He proposed making $8 billion of direct payments to Californians, spending more than $7 billion to help residents with rent and utility bills, extending universal preschool and providing $12 billion to help fix the state’s chronic homelessness epidemic. Not all of the federal money needs to be spent right away because the Treasury will allow states and local governments to use their allotments through 2024. Dan White, director of public sector research at Moody’s Analytics, said that will ensure that it has a lasting impact on the economy. “This is something that’s geared toward long-term productivity enhancements as opposed to just a near-term shot in the arm,” he said. — With assistance by Shruti Singh, Romy Varghese, Danielle Moran, and Mira Rojanasakul