The line connecting the two grim U.S. anniversaries that bookend the last week in May — the year that’s passed since  George Floyd was murdered by police in Minneapolis on May 25, 2020, and the century since hundreds of Black residents of Tulsa, Oklahoma, were massacred by a white mob on May 31, 1921 — is one that Lawrence Brown has long been tracing. In his new book, The Black Butterfly: The Harmful Politics of Race and Space in America, the scholar and public health researcher illuminates the process of “spatial racism,” a force that has bound oppression up with the geography that African Americans occupy, and the public health effects of this historical trauma: Throughout America’s history, Black communities, cities, and economic districts have been repeatedly disrupted, deprived, demolished, and destroyed. Before the Civil War, free Black and maroon communities were threatened by the clutches of enslavers and slave traders along with the deployments of slave catchers and patrols. After the Civil War, the safety of Black communities was pierced by lynchers and white supremacist mobs who destroyed entire Black cities and business districts. In the 1910s, as the Great Migration commenced, cities began using racial zoning, and White residents began using racially restrictive covenants to stop the “Negro invasion.” In the 1930s, the federal government partnered with local governments and real estate agents to draft Residential Security Maps, which deliberately redlined and underdeveloped Black neighborhoods in more than two hundred cities. In response to Black political activism and urban uprisings of the 1960s, the U.S. government intensified police repression and authorized a war on Black communities — under color of the War on Drugs — instead of fixing the damage that the federal government caused in those communities. Brown, a community research scholar at the new Center for Urban Health Equity at Baltimore’s Morgan State University, plumbs the question of Black Americans’ relationship to the physical world: where they are, and are not, allowed to go; where they can, and cannot, live in cities; and how Jim Crow-era practices like racial housing covenants and redlining still echo today. (See, for example, the many stories that emerged over the past year about how black homeowners face discrimination in housing appraisals.) The Tulsa massacre, which devastated the city’s prosperous Greenwood district, encapsulates the central tension of Brown’s work, which frames racism as a system that uses land and geography as weapons of oppression; the residents of the neighborhood known as “Black Wall Street” were targeted because they were able to amass capital and land. The Black Butterfly also draws heavily from Brown’s years studying the history of Baltimore while at Morgan State; before shifting gears to the new center, he was a professor at Morgan’s School of Community Health and Policy. Much of the book explores the Maryland city’s  pioneering deployment of racially discriminatory housing and land use policies, which left it with stark disparities in poverty and capital investment that faithfully follow the physical outlines of century-old segregation patterns. It’s also something of a road map for how to overcome these barriers to racial equity. In Brown’s words, the goal is to “foster healing from past harms and support collective self-determination for the future.” In practice, that means “building community wealth and boosting health without displacing existing residents.” CityLab spoke with Brown about the legacy of historical racism, how community investment tends to follow segregation patterns of the past, and how questions of race and space are intricately linked to the pandemic problems of the last year. This interview has been edited for length and clarity. This month marks not only the 100th anniversary of the destruction of Black Wall Street, but also the one-year anniversary of George Floyd’s death. In April, we saw former police officer Derek Chauvin convicted for murder. How does that relate to this idea of race and space in your book? Well, let me ask you: What do you think would have happened if the verdict was not guilty? People would have been angry. There probably would have been a riot. There you go. So that answers your question. Had there been a not guilty verdict on all three counts, that would have been potentially cataclysmic — the grief, the anger, the frustration, the idea of “here we go again.”  Emmett Till. Four little girls in Alabama bombed at the 16th Street Baptist Church. Dr. King. It’s historical trauma, and ongoing historical trauma. It’s not like this stuff is in the past. We’re seeing it repeated over and over again. In the book, that idea of ongoing historical trauma is something you relate directly to geography — that physical space is literally a form of oppression. “Black Butterfly” is a term you coined five years ago that describes the racial geography of Baltimore. There are the majority-black neighborhoods of East and West Baltimore. And then there’s the “White L,” the affluent neighborhoods stretching north to south, ending at the Inner Harbor  and the gentrified waterfront communities due east. What is it about the butterfly image that conveys this idea of race and space? Back in 2015, I was looking at a racial dot map of Baltimore created by a demographer named Dustin Cable. It didn’t really have distinct boundaries around counties or jurisdictions. So I drew a boundary of Baltimore on the map, and when I drew the boundary, I thought, “Whoa — the pattern of where African Americans are concentrated in Baltimore looks like a butterfly.” That was on my mind just in terms of how something as beautiful as a butterfly could be exploited. I knew that it served as something of a counter-narrative. Most people think of Black neighborhoods as this inherently deeply disturbing space, where no good things happen and that aren’t worthy of any resources. So I called it “the Black Butterfly” and started using it on social media. I was just really conscious of the fact that it would serve as a counter-narrative to the dominant narrative — that’s not just in Baltimore, but redlined Black communities all over the country. Language is a prevailing theme throughout the book. Do you think the words we use — butterfly, in this case — have a psychological influence on how we view a city? It’s very common to still see in academic literature the word “ghetto.” To the point that it’s disturbing to actually read. If you read this great chapter called “You Just Don’t Go Down There” [from the book The Ghetto], the authors talk about how discursive language that’s used around Black neighborhoods creates frameworks and narratives that then dictate policies and practices. To make Black neighborhoods matter, you’d have to have a counter-narrative. That was really the thing that was underpinning my intentional designation. Is that why you opt for the term “American Apartheid”? You often use it in the book, instead of more common terms for U.S. segregation laws, like Jim Crow. There is a scholarly tradition of using that: There’s actually a book name, American Apartheid, written by Douglas Massey and Nancy Denton in the ’90s. The way most people think about “Jim Crow” is very benign: Maybe they think about some laws around voting rights, maybe they think about segregation. What I like about “apartheid” is that it literally means apartness. I think it evokes more thinking around space, and gets people thinking more about what’s happening in a geographic context. The White L is one space, where capital concentrates and white people are clustered. The Black Butterfly is a different space; it’s a place where capital is denied, or, when it’s offered, in the subprime, predatory way. And it’s where black people are clustered. My hope is I’m getting people to think that it’s not just race in terms of individuals — it’s spaces and places where they live. And then, how those spaces in places are then characterized, especially around capital access. What’s a concrete example of that? If you’re thinking about space, there’s a term I use that the Baltimore Transit Equity Coalition coined: transit-detention. When you have to spend more than 45 minutes getting back and forth to work, you’re living in a community that can be characterized by transit apartheid. Black neighborhoods are isolated often from resources, including transit resources. That has tremendous implications. You can’t get to jobs. Or sometimes the buses may run somewhere during the day, but then they stop running at 11 at night, and the shift ends at 1 a.m., and now you have no way back. Of course, literally, it’s about mobility, but it’s also mobility in terms of your ability to access opportunities that may not be in your neighborhood. You say, “Pull yourself up by your bootstraps. Get a job for your family.” But people can’t get to the job. That’s where the tension comes into play. Like you’re trapped. While you were a professor of public health at Morgan State University, you did a lot of work around lead-paint poisoning, an issue that’s predominantly centered in the majority-Black east and west sides. That seems to be another clear example of how space — where someone grew up — can severely limit where a person can go in the future. We want to help people spatialize when they contextualize their thinking around certain issues. Exposure to lead is connected with higher levels of crime, violence, incarceration, lower levels of academic achievement and cognitive functioning. It disturbs the executive reasoning portion of the brain. It’s associated with aggression and impulsivity, with lack of focus. Lead, in a post-industrial city like Baltimore, is pervasive. Pervasive. And in a community without capital, people don’t have the means to get rid of it. If you’re in living in a place a deprivation of capital and a concentration of lead, there’s going to be higher levels of lead exposure, which then goes on to help explain higher level of crime and violence. Where does the Black Butterfly fit into conversations around public health, especially as it relates to the racial gaps that have marked the U.S. response to the ongoing pandemic? Understand that economic deprivation, lack of resources, lack of healthy foods — all of these things contribute to risk factors for Covid-19, like high blood pressure and obesity. If you live in a community with food apartheid, or you could be living in a community that doesn’t have parks and recreation facilities. So you have an exercise vector, you have a food vector. You have these vectors by which these redlined black communities are going to be more vulnerable whenever a virus like Covid-19 hits.