President Joe Biden said Friday that the U.S. could produce up to 1 billion vaccine doses by as early as the end of the year.  Singapore reported its first school-based transmission, while the number of new cases in India reached a five-week low. Hong Kong is considering a partial opening of its border with mainland China as early as next month and Osaka is seeking an extension of its state of emergency, according to media reports. Europeans and some foreign visitors can firm up their summer plans in the region, after EU negotiators agreed to introduce vaccine certificates. The EU’s drug regulator issued a warning against using AstraZeneca’s vaccine in some cases. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Type CVID <GO> on the terminal for global data on cases and deaths. Singapore reported its first case of school-based Covid-19 transmission as an outbreak in the city-state showed little signs of abating. A student at a local school contracted the virus after his classmate tested positive on Wednesday, according to a statement by the Ministry of Education. Close contacts of both pupils have been placed under quarantine. Previous cases this month involving school children included clusters that originated at private learning centers. Students from 30 schools have been infected in the past four weeks, the Straits Times reported Friday. The government this week suspended most school classes and shifted to home-based learning in part amid concern virus mutations have made children more vulnerable. India added fewer than 300,000 new Covid-19 cases for the sixth straight day on Saturday, in early signs that infections are slowing. The tally of 257,299 is the lowest since April 17. Still, IMF economists say the worst may be yet to come in the developing world, citing the infections trend in India and Brazil. New Delhi will need to immediately procure about 1 billion doses to cover 60% of its population by the first half of 2022, according to the note by IMF economists Ruchir Agarwal and Gita Gopinath. India reported another 4,194 deaths, bringing the toll to almost 300,000. Hong Kong’s border with mainland China could reopen for quarantine-free travel as early as June, starting with the launch of a proposed bubble with Guangdong for business travelers, the South China Morning Post reported, citing unidentified sources. Mainland authorities remain concerned about the city’s ability to stay on track and achieve a zero infection goal, the newspaper reported Friday, adding that uncertainties over recent Covid-19 cases could scuttle the plan. Osaka prefecture plans to ask the government to extend a state of emergency, currently set to expire at the end of this month, the Yomiuri newspaper reported. Osaka Governor Hirofumi Yoshimura said the situation remains serious and lifting the emergency can’t be considered under current circumstances, according to the report. An official from the Tokyo Metropolitan Government distributes flyers, that requests people to stay home, in the Shibuya district of Tokyo on May 9. Photographer: Soichiro Koriyama/Bloomberg Japan’s government will decide whether to extend a state of emergency in Tokyo and other areas by the end of this month. John Coates, a top official at the International Olympic Committee, said the Tokyo Olympics can be held even if the city remains under a state of emergency, Kyodo reported. President Joe Biden said Friday that the U.S. could produce up to 1 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses by as early as the end of the year. The “hope and expectation” is for the remainder of 2021, the U.S. will “be able to vaccinate every American,” Biden said after a day of meetings and ceremonies at the White House with South Korean President Moon Jae-in. Joe Biden speaks during a news conference in the East Room of the White House on May 21. Photographer: Erin Scott/Bloomberg A measure of U.S. deaths related to Covid-19 fell to the second-lowest level since the earliest days of the pandemic. The seven-day moving average of deaths reached 580 on Thursday, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg. Apart from Apart from March 2020 when the pandemic took off in the U.S., only July 7 had a lower number. Two cases of a virus variant first found in India have been identified in Louisiana, the Center for Emerging Viral Threats at LSU Health Shreveport reported on Friday. Two other cases of the variant were reported Thursday in North Texas by UT Southwestern Medical Center. The variant, called B.1.617.2, was initially detected in India, where it’s helping drive the most severe outbreak in the world. It’s spreading rapidly in the U.K., more than doubling this week to almost 3,500 cases. The World Health Organization classifies it as a variant of concern, though the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention doesn’t. The New York Mets are ending a negative Covid-19 test requirement at Citi Field on Monday and allowing fully vaccinated fans into 21 reopened seating sections that won’t have social-distancing rules. The change kicks in for the start of a Mets home series against the Colorado Rockies. It increases capacity to 12,222, the team said in a statement -- less than a third of a full park. Oregon joined states offering lottery winnings to people who get vaccinated. Governor Kate Brown said one person will win $1 million, five teenagers will win $100,000 college savings plans and 36 people will win $10,000 -- one from each county. All Oregon residents who have at least one dose will eligible for the June 27 drawing. “Take your shot,” the Democratic governor said at a press briefing. “It can save your life and just maybe make you a millionaire.” New York, Ohio, Maryland and Kentucky are also offering lottery prizes or tickets to encourage vaccinations, as the pace of inoculation slows nationwide. Almost 52% of Oregonians have had at least one dose, compared with the national average of 48.2%, according to the Bloomberg Vaccine Tracker. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s government began to sketch out necessary conditions to ease travel restrictions at the Canada-U.S. border. The world’s longest international border has been closed to non-essential traffic for more than a year. A Canadian border agent at the Canada-U.S. border in Saint-Bernard-de-Lacolle, Quebec, Canada, in September 2020. Photographer: Christinne Muschi/Bloomberg “We recognize that in the coming weeks, when the number of vaccinated people grows and if we continue to see a reduction in Covid cases and hospitalizations, that we may be in a position to progressively loosen these measures,” Intergovernmental Affairs Minister Dominic Leblanc told reporters. New York’s state’s seven-day positivite test rate dropped below 1% for the first time since September, Governor Andrew Cuomo said on Friday. The rate is among the lowest in the nation. California was the only state with a seven-day rate below 1% in the latest data from the U.S Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. With more than a month of declining cases, hospitalizations and deaths, New York followed the CDC guidance and dropped its mask mandate this week for fully-vaccinated residents. On Friday, Cuomo said four counties -- Putnam, Yates, Hamilton and Essex -- all recorded zero new positive cases. California outlined its plans for full reopening, saying it will lift physical distancing and capacity limits on June 15, as well as drop quarantine requirements for people traveling into the state. The state has already said it will conform to CDC guidelines and lift mask mandates for those who are vaccinated on June 15. People dine outdoors in San Diego, California, on May 13. Photographer: Bing Guan/Bloomberg The state said it is recommending that large outdoor sporting events and concerts with more than 10,000 attendees and indoors events of more than 5,000 should require proof of a vaccine or a negative coronavirus test. “We feel like we are tracking well,” said California Health Secretary Mark Ghaly said during a call with reporters, citing high vaccination rates and plummeting hospitalizations. London Heathrow airport will devote a terminal to arrivals from countries with high levels of Covid-19 infection amid concern that having them share a building with other passengers risks spreading the virus. A dedicated facility for flights from so-called red list nations will open in Heathrow’s Terminal 3 from June 1, the airport said in a statement Friday. The hub had been in protracted talks over government funding for the plan, which it said will be very challenging logistically. Mask use and improved ventilation were linked to a lower rate of Covid-19 cases in schools in a study that reinforced federal health guidance on how to keep the nation’s children safe. Among Georgia elementary schools, the frequency of Covid cases at the end of last year was 37% lower in schools that required teachers and staff to use masks, according to a Friday report by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The incidence of Covid cases was 39% lower in schools that enhanced ventilation. Leaders of the Group of 20 nations called for greater global cooperation in the battle against the coronavirus pandemic and to prevent future outbreaks, a bid to turn the page on damaging tensions over how to tackle the disease. China pledged $3 billion in additional international aid over the next three years to support developing countries recover. U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris vowed to continue donating excess supplies of vaccines to countries in need, and France will share at least 30 million doses by the end of this year and contribute 500 million euros ($609 million) to the G-20’s Act-A initiative. The White House is enlisting popular dating apps to encourage Americans to brandish their vaccination status in exchange for a better shot at love. Nine of the largest dating apps in the U.S., including Bumble Inc.’s namesake and Match Group Inc.’s Tinder and Hinge, are adding badges that show a person’s vaccine status and offering perks for those who have already gotten their inoculations. The program is the federal government’s latest effort to boost vaccination rates in the U.S. and achieve President Joe Biden’s goal of getting 70% of adults at least one jab by July 4. Europeans and some foreign visitors can firm up their summer plans in the region, after European Union negotiators agreed to introduce vaccine certificates that will allow quarantine-free travel within Europe, handing the pummeled tourist industry an important chance to salvage the season. “Citizens will be able to travel safely. Businesses will be able to benefit from their spending, and transport will be able to operate,” European Justice Commissioner Didier Reynders said at a press conference Friday. “Today we are one step closer to making this happen.” Youngsters in France between the age of 16 and 18 years old could start to be inoculated in June, vaccination czar Alain Fischer said in an interview on BFM TV on Friday. Visitors register for inoculation at the Covid-19 ‘vaccinodrome’ vaccination site at the Porte de Versailles exhibition center in Paris on May 6. Photographer: Nathan Laine/Bloomberg Earlier in the day, health authorities revised lower the total number of confirmed Covid cases since the start of the pandemic by 348,846 to 5.57 million, or about 6%. That’s due to an updated tracking system that now avoids double-counting of people who were tested twice in a very short period of time. The authorities said the the revisions don’t modify the broad trend of the epidemic, which has slowed after a recent partial lockdown and as vaccination ramps up. U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson said he remains confident that England’s lockdown will end on June 21 as planned, despite the rapid rise in cases of a variant first detected in India. Authorities have found 3,424 cases of the B1.617.2 variant in the U.K., up from 1,313 last week. Public Health England also announced late on Thursday it was investigating a separate variant with an “unusual mutation profile,” with 49 cases logged so far. That prompted fears that the U.K.’s reopening plans could be in doubt, but Johnson told broadcasters on Friday: “At the moment I can’t see anything that makes me think we’ll have to deviate from the roadmap.” The EU drug regulator warned healthcare professionals against giving AstraZeneca’s Vaxzevria to anyone who developed blood clots with low platelets after receiving the vaccine, according to a statement. Doctors should make checks within 3 weeks of vaccination and ensure that such patients receive specialist care. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. WATCH: Variants Don’t Pose Great Risk to Vaccinated, Johns Hopkins Says Source: Bloomberg Germany’s Health Minister Jens Spahn said the third virus wave “has been broken” amid accelerating vaccinations. The country’s seven-day incidence rate has been steadily falling and was at 67.3 per 100,000 people on Friday. Europe’s biggest economy is reopening outdoor dining and is easing restrictions on non-essential stores. Lothar Wieler, head of the Robert Koch Institute public-health agency, said the willingness of Germans to get vaccinated was very high. Still, he warned that infections could jump back up quickly if restrictions were relaxed too soon. — With assistance by Ian Fisher, Geraldine Amiel, Emily Ashton, Michael B Marois, Shelly Banjo, Greg Chang, and Angela Cullen