Mali’s military vice president fired interim civilian leaders who were meant to prepare for elections in the West African nation, a move that’s being described as the country’s second coup in less than a year. Vice President Assimi Goita dismissed President Bah N’Daw and Prime Minister Moctar Ouane for naming a new government without consulting him, according to a statement read on state television Tuesday. He also blamed them for nationwide strikes and protests. “In light of recent events, I feel obliged to relieve the president and prime minister of their functions to defend the republic,” said Goita, who led a military junta in an Aug. 18 coup. Two junta members lost their positions in the cabinet reshuffle. The leadership vacuum heightens uncertainty in a country still reeling from the coup which overthrew President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita. Soldiers took N’Daw and Ouane to the army’s headquarters in Kati, 15 kilometers (9 miles) from the capital Monday, triggering a series of events that bore some resemblance to Aug. 18, when Keita was forced to step down. French President Emmanuel Macron described the junta’s actions as a “coup within a coup” and his government has called for an emergency United Nations Security Council meeting on Mali. The former colonial power remains deeply involved in Mali where it’s deployed troops to fight jihadists. Read more: Spate of Islamist Attacks Puts Sahel on Track for Deadliest Year “If we don’t have clarity on the situation in the next few hours we’re ready to impose targeted sanctions against those responsible,” Macron said following a European Union summit in Brussels Tuesday. Ouane’s cabinet announcement was an attempt to “sabotage the transition,” Goita said in his statement. A new interim government will be named and the country remains committed to its election calendar, he said. Presidential elections had been scheduled for February 27. The Economic Community of West African States, which took a hardline stance against Mali following last year’s coup, temporarily shutting borders and halting financial flows, sent former Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan to Bamako Tuesday. The 15-member bloc has previously insisted that elections must hold by February 2022. — With assistance by Ania Nussbaum