Asian stocks were steady Thursday and Treasury yields held an advance as traders weighed Federal Reserve minutes that flagged the possibility of a debate on scaling back asset purchases. Commodities remained under pressure. Equities fluctuated in Japan, posted losses in Hong Kong and China, and rose in Australia. U.S. futures edged down after the S&P 500 pulled back for a third day. The Nasdaq 100 notched a small advance, boosted by late-day gains in tech stocks including Facebook Inc. European contracts were in the green. The minutes indicated some Fed officials may be open “at some point” to discussing adjustments to the pace of massive bond purchases if the U.S. economy keeps progressing rapidly. The benchmark 10-year Treasury yield was steady after climbing to 1.67%. A dollar gauge held onto a rally. Commodities have slid amid concern about inflation, potential curbs on monetary stimulus and China’s efforts to rein in raw material prices. Volatility swept over cryptocurrencies, with Bitcoin posting a same-day plunge and rally of about 30% Wednesday. The sector was more stable Thursday. Stocks have lost steam in recent sessions on worries about inflation and a Covid-19 resurgence in some countries. Speculative ardor is also waning, underlined most recently by the gyrations in digital tokens. Any hints of a timeline for paring back exceptional stimulus could exacerbate such trends, even though U.S. policy makers have signaled they intend to maintain an accommodative stance for a prolonged period. “It was a surprise to hear the talk about Fed tapering,” Joyce Chang, JPMorgan’s chair of global research, said on Bloomberg TV. “The market had been thinking there might be a couple of months before you really saw this particular issue come into focus.” Still, Chang said it was not the time to bet against the broader fundamentals right now on the outlook for growth. Oil was little changed after slumping to the lowest in three weeks with traders also concerned about growing supply from the U.S. and Iran. ARK’s Cathie Wood says Bitcoin could still hit $500,000. Source: Bloomberg Here are some key events this week: These are some of the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Ye Xie, Richard Richtmyer, and Claire Ballentine