When the pandemic forced millions of Americans to shelter indoors, parks saw a surge in popularity. Parks in North Carolina received an all-time high of 20 million visitors in 2020, an uptick of one million from the year before. In New York, the number of park-goers topped 78 million. Cities also mobilized their green spaces in the pandemic-fighting effort, using them to distribute PPE, meals and even vaccines. In Memphis, Tennessee, a 360-foot long tent was erected on Liberty Park fairgrounds in April, aiming to administer 21,000 vaccines weekly. But even as green spaces proved to be a crucial element to people’s physical and mental well-being — especially for urban dwellers — the pandemic further exposed the disparity in who has access to parks. Some 100 million Americans, mostly of color or low-income, do not live within a 10-minute walk from a park, according to The Trust for Public Land. New data from the group shows that in the 100 most populated U.S. cities, neighborhoods that are majority nonwhite have, on average, access to 44% less park acreage than majority white neighborhoods. Low-income communities have access to 42% less than high-income neighborhoods. Since 2011, The Trust for Public Land (TPL) has kept track of green space availability across U.S. metros, using the ParkScore index, which measures how well cities are meeting their residents’ need for parks based on four metrics: park access, acreage, investment and amenities. This year for the first time, the group added equity as the a fifth metric. Its assessment is grounded in the idea that Americans should have park access within a 10-minute walk from their home. The score compares park acreage and access between neighborhoods of color and those that are mostly white, and between low- and high-income communities. “This measure of equity, we think, will make the index better by showing differences not only between cities but also differences between population groups within the city,” said Linda Hwang, TPL’s director of Strategy and Innovation. Newark, New Jersey, tops the list with an equity score of 93.5, closely followed by Chicago and Washington, D.C., with scores of 90 and 87.5, respectively.  The lowest equity score is Bakersfield, California at 19, which is in the bottom 10 of the overall index. Top and bottom 10 equity scores, as calculated by TPL. The score is out of 100, and takes into account income and race equity. The national median is 54.25. Source: The Trust for Public Land  TPL’s data has caveats, notably that it relies on what municipalities qualify as a park. The definition of a park is not necessarily the same across all cities, and playgrounds paved with asphalt, with little shade, can sometimes be included in that definition. Another caveat is that many people of color are  less likely to go to parks due to obstacles other than proximity, a factor that is hard for the study to adequately capture. Researchers trace park inequity back to historic housing discrimination. The equity score “reflects structural racism dating all the way back to redlining, and other policies like covenants, that concentrated people of color into specific neighborhoods,” Hwang said. “It’s not so much because of anything that an agency did or didn’t do in these last 10 months.” Hwang hopes that plans made now, potentially incorporating the new data from this study, will start to show results in the years to come. But while cities need more green space, park agencies could face $1 billion in budget losses between 2020 and 2021, according to TPL. The cancelation of large-scale events due to Covid-19 slashed revenue streams, while 63 of the 100 largest municipalities reported making direct cuts to the agency’s 2020 or 2021 budget. The average cut was 10%, but went as high as 30% in Spokane, Washington, and Norfolk, Virginia. Those who spent the most and the least out of the 100 most populated cities. The national median is $96 per capita. Source: The Trust for Public Land  The trust’s findings echo those from a Boston University survey of 130 mayors from June to August of 2020, in which 40% said they planned to make “dramatic” financial cuts to parks and recreation amid budget limitations at the time. Researchers behind that survey found that few were thinking systematically about park equity, and that many were overly optimistic about how accessible and welcoming their public parks were to communities of color. Seven in 10 mayors said that their residents lived within walking distance of green spaces and 84% said park investments responded to all residents. TPL is part of a coalition of more than 200 organizations urging Congress to pass the Parks, Jobs and Equity Act — which proposes a $500 million investment in local parks to address the inequity problem — as part of the Biden administration’s infrastructure package. The bill would prioritize funding for urban areas that “lack parks and/or outdoor recreation areas within one-half mile or a 10-minute walk,” according to the report, and to “high-need populations based on income, age, or other measures of vulnerability and need.” TPL says such action is particularly necessary as climate change accelerates. Green spaces help to mitigate extreme heat, especially when they have a sufficient tree canopy, or a body of water accessible. High temperatures can have severe health consequences, such as high rates of asthma. Green infrastructure can also help absorb stormwater, and as a result prevent flooding. “I can’t stress enough how much more people are starting to understand that parks are absolutely vital,” Hwang said. “And it took this last crisis to really bring that idea forward again.”