On March 25, the French city of Lyon announced its municipal spending plans for the year ahead, unveiling a policy aimed at improving gender equality. Under the newly elected progressive mayor Grégory Doucet, France’s third-largest city adopted a “budget sensitive to gender”: Going forward, Lyon will scrutinize its 615-million-euro annual budget for signs that public investments are distributed fairly between men and women. Such gendered budgets have already been adopted by some smaller French municipalities, including Grenoble, Rennes, Bordeaux and Brest; the capital, Paris, is now considering joining them. But Lyon is the first French city of more than 500,000 to pursue the idea, which aims to comb through the city’s spending to address gender biases in what kinds of facilities and programs are getting funded. City officials see the gendered budget as a potent new weapon to fight the entrenched societal inequalities between men and women, a gap that has become even more extreme during the pandemic. In France, as in many other countries, mothers have been disproportionately burdened by parenting duties and female workers have been over-represented in sectors hit by job losses, among other challenges. “The pandemic has put these deep inequalities in the spotlight,” says Florence Delaunay, deputy mayor in charge of rights and equality at Lyon City Hall. “It’s accentuated the precarity that already existed. That makes our efforts as important as ever. But this kind of analysis has been needed for a long time.” The concept of a gendered budget isn’t new. In 1984, Australia became the world’s first country to experiment with a Women’s Budget Statement, requiring government ministries to produce annual reports so that budgetary decisions would be made “with full knowledge of their impact on women.” Since 1995, the United Nations entity UN Women has recommended the measure as part of “gender mainstreaming” and the European Parliament passed a resolution inviting the Member States to adopt gender budgeting in 2003. According to the OECD, 17 member nations, including Iceland, Japan and Mexico, have already introduced some form of it. In the U.S., San Francisco passed a gender-sensitive budget ordinance in 1998. According to Delaunay, Lyon is breaking its current budget into three categories. First, gender-neutral expenses will be identified — such as maintenance costs for the town hall. Then the city will look at the relatively small share of spending that is already “made to restore equality between women and men,” such as the funding of support centers for victims of domestic violence. Finally, they will account for the spending on equipment and services such as sports facilities, cultural institutions and urban planning that can be considered “gendered,” which is thought to make up 80% of Lyon’s total expenditures. “This diagnosis will allow us to know where we are starting from and to observe the imbalances between men and women in our public policy,” says Delaunay. “From there, we will be able to make important changes to our spending.” Lyon’s initial analysis will cover five sectors: the town hall, the municipal museum of fine arts, the recreation department, the parks department and the police department. A specialized firm is being hired to carry out data collection, and the results of the evaluation are due in September, before being extended to all of the city’s other budgets and departments next year. Other cities adopting gendered budgets say that this analysis can be a game-changer when it comes to exposing hidden inequality, particularly given the lack of gender-disaggregated data currently collated by most public authorities. “Reaching equality between men and women has been our focus for a while,” says Nadège Noisette, the assistant responsible for finance in Rennes, pointing to the recent efforts to “feminize” streets by renaming them for significant figures like Rose Valland, an art historian and French resistance fighter. “But the idea is to go further. We have never carried out an analysis like this before. And we will use it to act.” In a further stamp of approval, the French capital is likely to also adopt the policy in the coming months. While there has yet to be an official announcement, officials at Paris City Hall told CityLab that work on a gendered budget is “in progress,” with a team said to be collaborating with counterparts in Lyon in order to “continue the feminist transition and reaffirm the objective of equality.” Evidence of the effectiveness of gendered budgets around the world is limited. Australia’s pioneering effort has had mixed success, according to a 2013 report by the Commonwealth Secretariat. The group found that “important, although uneven, progress” on gender equality had been made since the mid-1980s, improving accountability, raising awareness, and influencing wider national policy in such areas as Australia’s age pension system. Yet researchers deemed it unsuccessful in changing budgetary decisions, because it is “not fully integrated” in the process. “Decisions on spending and taxation proposals have already been made by the time the Women’s Budget Statement is compiled,” they concluded. The Spanish region of Andalusia, which introduced provisions for gender budgeting in 2003, appears to have made more progress. A 2016 report by the International Monetary Fund found an expansion of after-school services for children, a rise in female ownership of agricultural holdings, a greater focus on combating violence against women and an increase in female university professors from 13% in 2008 to 20% in 2015. Helena Morais Maciera, a researcher at the European Institute for Gender Equality who is studying how EU member states have been implementing gendered budgets, sees a recent trend toward more localized interest in gendered budgets. “Gender budgeting was a tool to mainstream gender in the 1980s,” she says. “But it was from around 2018 that major organizations like the IMF and World Bank began to recognize it as key to good governance. Now we’re seeing the policy emerge not only on national but regional and local levels.” Freed of hefty national bureaucracy and boosted by a more immediate real-world impact on communities, the city-level approach to gendered budgets could be effective, says Alfrun Tryggvadottir, a senior policy analyst at the OECD who has been advising governments on how to implement gendered budgets. “We don’t have many examples of it on a sub-national level,” says Tryggvadottir, who was formerly director of budget in Iceland, one of the world’s gendered budget pioneers. “But it could be really good to have this. Outcome-based systems become much clearer on this scale.” In France, the groundwork was laid some years ago. The Law for Real Equality between Women and Men, passed in 2014, requires all municipalities with more than 20,000 inhabitants to draw up a report on gender equality prior to debates on the draft budget. But rights campaigners say that in reality the number of active, working gendered budgets in France remains very low. “It’s a formidable and effective tool to achieve real equality,” says Marie-Pierre Badré, president of France’s Hubertine Auclert Center, a research institute that published a report on gendered budgets in 2019. “But out of more than 36,000 municipalities, the number in practice can be counted on the fingers of one hand.” A key distinction made by Badré is that many public facilities, “although free to access, are not used equally by men and women.” Stadiums, skate parks and bowling alleys draw mostly male users and often receive public money, she says, while spaces used by a larger share of women, like equestrian centers, are rarely publicly funded. “I am completely for gender equality. But these gendered budgets create oppositions and fractures when we need togetherness.” The center’s report found that in one city in France’s southwestern department of Haute-Garonne, men represent 60% of sports club members and benefit from 73% of the sports-related subsidies; the municipality spends 22.70 euros per man registered in a sports association against 12.90 per woman. “This unequal distribution of money continues to be widespread,” says Badré. But change appears to be on the way, from sports to schools and culture. Lyon has increased funding for the city’s female soccer team to the same level of their male counterparts and plans to analyze the demographics of visitors to cultural exhibitions and subsidies for musical instruments at the municipal conservatory. In Rennes, the municipality is creating gender-neutral schoolyards, which incorporate more greenery and are free of “dominating” spaces, such as a soccer pitch, to promote inclusivity. The city will also provide an equal-opportunity scheme for nonprofits, ensuring funding is distributed fairly. In Bordeaux, the city’s gender budgeting led to reserved girls-only time slots in skate parks or swimming pools and free sanitary products in schools. Other gender-focused changes focus on transportation and public safety improvements: In Brest, a “stop on demand” system has been introduced in night buses, allowing women to get off as close as possible to their destination, and well-lit pedestrian paths have been built in Nantes. Such reforms are mirrored in cities like Vienna, which has long incorporated gender mainstreaming principles in response to decades of past planning decisions that prioritized automobile drivers, who were more likely to be male, over pedestrians. There, traffic lights have been re-timed to give families with children more time to cross, seating has been installed in parks and playgrounds, and sidewalk barriers have been removed to better accommodate older people, wheelchair users and parents with strollers. In Sweden, a “gender equal” snowplow policy has seen footpaths, cycle paths and routes to day care centers cleared ahead of typical target areas frequented by men, such as highways. But according to the OECD’s Tryggvadottir, authorities face a number of challenges in implementing long-term efforts, including the lack of gender-disaggregated data and the need for sustained political commitment. Negotiations over gender-sensitive public programs often require achieving consensus between finance and equality sectors in local government. “It won’t be solved overnight,” she says. Another issue is cost: In the Parisian suburb of Montreuil, only 3 playgrounds out of 54 will be redeveloped because each renovation will cost more than 100,000 euros. Critics of gender budgeting have come from both progressive and conservative opponents, who point to the paradox of using gender-based analysis to eradicate gendered divisions. A study in the journalist Women's Studies International Forum concluded that some spending targeted at men, such an anger management program for teenage boys, is “not necessarily discriminatory against women and may in fact promote equality.” Similarly, some spending targeted at females risks reinforcing outdated gender roles and harmful stereotypes, some critics say. Étienne Blanc, a senator in Lyon for the right-wing Les Républicains party, says that the city’s gendered budget could promote division by tackling the consequences of discrimination rather than the causes. “I am completely for gender equality,” he says. “But these gendered budgets create oppositions and fractures when we need togetherness. You can’t ban boys from playing football just because they occupy the center of the playground. Will we stop giving funding to charities that only support men?” For Lyon’s Delaunay, however, equality is a fundamental objective of the gendered budget, and if successful it could provide a blueprint for the city to address inequality in other fronts, as in environmental justice and racial discrimination. “We want to balance these inequalities, of course,” she says. “But the idea is to also create a more agreeable city, one that is more inclusive for everyone. The health crisis will make achieving this goal more challenging — but also more important than ever.”