The sound of gospel fills the neighborhood. It’s coming from outside a church across from Cup Foods, near the corner where, almost one year ago that Sunday, George Floyd was killed. "We have so much to be thankful for,” a woman preaches into a microphone. Down the block, children pop bubbles as they waft past a gas station sign that bears the words “No Justice, No Streets” instead of prices per gallon. Medicinal herbs and donated flowers fill garden plots. A folding table is stacked with t-shirts bearing Floyd’s face. Since Floyd was murdered on May 25, 2020, the city at the center of a national reckoning on race and policing has sought to reinvent itself, trying on different iterations of the change that residents say is necessary to move forward. As the gut-wrenching video of Floyd’s death circulated last year, the overwhelming consensus in Minneapolis was that the status quo was no longer working. Although Floyd was not the first Black man to die at the hands of a Minneapolis police officer, previous efforts to hold the department accountable had progressed in fits and incremental starts. This time would be — and had to be — different, activists, locals and city leaders came together to declare. As protests and calls to defund law enforcement filled street after street in cities across the world, nine city council members pledged to dismantle the police department entirely and start anew. A year later, meaningful change has yet to materialize and there is increasing dissent about the best path forward. Minneapolis, like other major U.S. cities, has seen a rise in robbery and murder. In April and May three children were shot as bystanders in separate instances of gun violence. Mayor Jacob Frey and several members of the city council have walked back their calls for transformational change, with Frey expressing a desire to return the department to full strength while also funding alternative public safety measures. Community groups are creating and running alternatives to police they hope can replace the force altogether.      Perhaps the most significant symbol of real transformation is embodied by what is now called George Floyd Square, which anchors four neighborhoods and is blocked off to cars. There, for 12 long months, police have largely stayed away while crowds have gathered — grieving, protesting, marching, singing, grilling, and organizing. “In Minneapolis, the way we responded is we beautified, we publicized, we unified and then we were able to mobilize,” said Jay Webb, who works in what he calls “victory and recovery” gardens and who also built the circular structure around the square’s Black Power fist sculpture. While the anniversary marks a chance for reflection, this November’s local election will let Minneapolis residents choose which future suits them, when they decide whether or not to replace Frey and the entire city council. Also potentially on the ballot: a measure to replace the police department with a Department of Public Safety under city council oversight. The city feels like it’s in a “state of transition,” said Sheila Nezhad, a community organizer who is running to replace Frey as mayor. “When you walk around the city, everywhere you go there’s memories of resilience and destruction, and many times hand in hand.” Before the upheaval of the last 12 months, Frey looked like he was going to cruise to re-election. He staked out a position to the left of incumbent Betsy Hodges when he ran for mayor in 2017, winning in part on a message that emphasized the need for police reform; during his tenure, he ushered in several progressive policies such as  ending single-family zoning in the city. Now, he’s the one facing the leftward challenge and questions about his record on policing as he seeks reelection. That has left Frey vulnerable even with the race’s slow start — only four other candidates have entered, compared with 16 in 2017 and more than 30 in 2013. The mayor, perhaps sensing Nezhad’s and former state representative Kate Knuth’s challenge from the left, has recently leaned on rhetoric that ties the increase in crime to calls to defund the police and the force’s smaller size, said Hamline University political science professor David Schultz. In May, Frey released a public safety plan to address the gun violence, taking aim specifically at some local officials who have “fought to abolish or defund the police” and promising additional resources and officers. “He may be positioning himself as the person who can win in ranked choice voting by taking a slightly more moderate approach on police reform,” Schultz said. “Does the mayor benefit from the fact that there isn’t a consensus further left candidate? I think he’s acutely conscious of that.” Also up for grabs are all the city council seats. Council President Lisa Bender, who pushed for public safety overhauls, is not running for reelection; neither is Alondra Cano, who represented Ward 9, near the area where Floyd was killed. “This is the most consequential election in the history of the city of Minneapolis,” said Jonathan Weinhagen, the president and chief executive officer of the Minneapolis Regional Chamber of Commerce, who personally supports Frey. “I’m all about the economy. And the economy starts with public safety.” Voters may have have an opportunity to more directly influence the future of policing through a ballot measure that would change the city charter to replace the existing police department with a public health-informed Department of Public Safety. Last year, a similar proposal by the city council failed to advance; this year, one has been resurrected by the advocacy group Yes 4 Minneapolis, and another by the council. “We're putting a very clear question on the ballot for people that says, do we transform our system of public safety; yes or no?” said Steve Fletcher, a city council member and the co-author of the council’s measure. “That's going to be very telling.” The guilty verdict of Derek Chauvin in April brought some short-lived relief, but his conviction did little to address the city’s more fundamental problems with its embattled police department. Chauvin’s sentencing is scheduled for June 25, and with two more police officers set to be tried next year, the department is still under a microscope: it’s at a third of its former size, after more than 150 officers left the force or retired early, and its practices are now under investigation by the Department of Justice. As the city debates police power and staffing levels, one vision for the future of public safety has blossomed out of necessity in the area surrounding Cup Foods, where Floyd was killed. There, community members support one another, instead of relying on the police, who activists and locals say have largely turned their back on the intersection and nearby communities. Some community-led public safety efforts are strictly volunteer efforts; others have received support from the city’s Office of Violence Prevention, which has deployed trained and paid violence interrupters to the Powderhorn neighborhood. With a funding boost in the last budgetary cycle, the office has also expanded its community de-escalation and restorative justice efforts, and is diverting some 911 calls and non-emergency 311 calls to a small mental health response team. More reforms may be possible if the charter change passes, says Fletcher, like moving traffic enforcement duties out of control of the police. Demands by activists like those on the ground in Minneapolis have shifted the paradigm on how cities are talking about the role of policing over the last year. But the lack of tangible outcomes reflects a national sense of frustration. “The risk we run is we do things incrementally and then are disappointed again. What has changed since Michael Brown was killed in Ferguson? Not nearly enough,” said Barry Friedman, the founding director of NYU Law's Policing Project.  “We know the problems, they’re not a secret. It’s a question of having the organization and will to fix them.” Although Minneapolis has a reputation of being a livable city, that’s not true for all Minneapolitans; historic racial inequities and restrictive covenants governing land ownership have created barriers to homeownership and therefore wealth-building opportunities for Black residents. These long-standing challenges were compounded with the economic toll of the pandemic and civil unrest that left 1,500 businesses damaged or destroyed, many of them under-insured and owned by immigrants and people of color, according to Weinhagen at the Chamber of Commerce. Bringing those businesses back to where they were and aspiring to leave them better off requires resources. “Our number one legislative priority has been disaster relief,” Weinhagen said. To that end, Minneapolis and St. Paul have requested $300 million from the state legislature. Larger corporations based in Minneapolis were among many that responded to Floyd’s death by making sweeping statements, pledging to ramp up diversity in hiring, and making donations to national racial justice organizations, with mixed results. But others have also committed to looking inward to support the local economy. Retailer Target Corp. got hit much harder than most local companies by the violence that accompanied protests denouncing police brutality after Floyd’s murder. Its store in South Minneapolis, which sits right between Target’s downtown headquarters and the spot where Floyd was killed, was looted and burned, and several other Twin Cities locations were damaged. In rebuilding the East Lake Street store, Target met with Black residents, employees and community organizers to ask what they wanted to see in  the reconstructed store, which draws shoppers from areas twice as Black as a typical Target and had been derogatorily referred to as “Tar-ghetto” by some white residents of the Longfellow neighborhood where it is located. Target hired a local contracting company owned by a Somali-American woman and built some of those neighborhood requests into its blueprints, such as stocking the grocery with more spices favored by shoppers in the community, and making the crosswalk from the nearby rail station safer with better lighting. Beyond its stores, Target also joined the OneTen Coalition to hire and nurture Black talent in the Twin Cities, which will help meet its broader pledge to increase the representation of Black employees by 20% over the next three years. Also, in December the Target Foundation, the company's philanthropic arm, invested $5 million with more than 70 nonprofits serving BIPOC communities in the Twin Cities. Fellow Twin Cities-area retailer Best Buy Co. has committed about $1 million to local organizations and programs since Floyd’s murder, including sponsorships of gatherings like the George Floyd Global Memorial Event and the African American Leadership Forum. The company, which has pledged to fill one out of three new non-hourly corporate roles with a Black, Latinx or Indigenous employee, is also investing more than $4.6 million over the next three years in Twin Cities after-school centers that provide mentorship and internship opportunities. Another top local employer, St. Paul-based 3M Co., pledged to donate $50 million over five years to address racial opportunity gaps through investments in workforce development and science, technology, engineering and math programs. 3M also for the first time made public minority representation data that companies provide to the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. Finally, the biggest company based in the region, UnitedHealth Group Inc., pledged $10 million and 25,000 in volunteer hours in support for the Twin Cities. It also extended support to local merchants and community groups, including a “Healthy Lake Street” fund for businesses damaged in the unrest. Company volunteers helped rebuild the Seward Pharmacy in South Minneapolis, and mobile medical clinics offered health care in underserved communities. The pandemic wreaked havoc on municipal budgets across the U.S. and Minneapolis was no exception. Its general fund budget shrunk by 6.7% percent in fiscal 2021 and amid calls to defund the police the city’s police budget shrunk by $28 million, when compared to 2020, to $160.6 million. But the cut in police spending doesn’t  tell a full story. The entire budget was subject to cuts because of belt-tightening spurred by the pandemic, the chief has access to an $11.4 million set-aside for overtime and new recruits, and the city will have to dip into its general fund to pay the $27 million settlement to Floyd’s family — since the $9.2 million it set aside was not enough to cover the biggest police misconduct settlement in the city’s history.  Source: Bloomberg reporting   An infusion from the federal government, through the American Rescue Plan, will be a boon to the city’s finances. Minneapolis is set to receive $271.2 million in direct funding from the federal government, according to Department of Treasury guidance. The federal assistance has given Frey room to call for more resources for both police and the alternatives to police that many in the city are calling for. He has proposed using some of that money to fund additional cameras in high-crime areas, officer overtime and new funding for the office of violence prevention. He has also called for federal officers to come to the city and the creation of a violent crime task force that would include police officers, according to his plans. That approach doesn’t meet the moment, or offer a real change to the system that led to Floyd’s murder, said Knuth, the former state representative challenging Frey in the mayor’s race. “He talks a lot about a both/and approach to policing. To me it sounds more like the status quo,” Knuth said. “I don’t see how the changes he has put forward and what he is proposing will achieve the kind of public safety system people really want.”  — With assistance by Matthew Boyle, Ryan Beene, and John Tozzi