We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Asia sped up actions to tackle the resurgence of the coronavirus in the region with plans to vaccinate more people, faster testing and further restrictions imposed. Singapore has approved a Covid breath test that gives results within a minute, while Japan has opened large-scale vaccination centers in Tokyo and Osaka and Malaysia is rolling out new curbs. The spread of Covid-19 in the U.S. continues to slow, with the country ending its first week since June with no days of infections exceeding 30,000, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg. Still, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention warned that under-vaccinated areas in the U.S. could become hot spots for a mutation of the coronavirus first detected in India and is increasing surveillance of the more-transmissible variant. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Type CVID <GO> on the terminal for global data on cases and deaths. Ireland may publish a new plan to reopen aviation, dining indoor, and allow some spectators at sports and concerts. Irish Prime Minister Micheal Martin is set to announce the so-called roadmap to reopen those three sectors by July in a speech scheduled for May 28, The Irish Times reported. There have been no crowds at sports or concerts for more than a year, while dining indoors has been banned since Christmas. Australian authorities are racing to determine the source of a small cluster of coronavirus cases in Melbourne, the first community infections in the nation’s second-most populous city in almost three months. The city of about 5 million people has largely contained the virus after enduring one of the world’s longest and most stringent lockdowns last year. Taiwan is evaluating whether to extend a soft-lockdown, health minister Chen Shih-chung says at briefing in Taipei, after the country reported 334 local virus cases on Monday. Meanwhile, the capital Taipei banned all on-site dining and drinking from May 24.. Outlets will only be allowed to serve takeout food or make deliveries. Operators who fail to comply will be fined as much as NT$15,000 ($536). Thailand has detected eight new cases of Covid-19 variant first found in South Africa, Supakit Sirilak, director-general of the Department of Medical Sciences, said on Monday. The number of cases of a variant initially found in India is still on the rise, he said, adding that authorities continue to collect samples from various construction worker camps in Bangkok. The majority of the infections during the current outbreak were of the variant first detected in the U.K., but hundreds of weekly illegal border crossings, bypassing the country’s mandatory quarantine, pose threats of the introduction of other variants. Hong Kong aims to allow short cruise tours heading out from its ports into international waters mid-summer, Secretary for Commerce and Economic Development Edward Yau tells reporters at the Legislative Council. Cruise operators will be required to implement Covid-19 prevention measures that are no less strict than those on land, while passengers and crew members will need to be vaccinated. India reported 222,315 new coronavirus infections on Monday, the lowest since April 16, government data show. While cases have peaked, Covid-19 has now killed more than 300,000 people in the country. Almost 4,500 people died over the past 24 hours and fatalities continue at near-record levels. Local media reports cite doctors as identifying gangrene among the complications resulting from Covid infections in the country Singapore has approved a breath test designed to detect Covid-19 and give accurate results within a minute. The Breathonix test has so far undergone three clinical trials, and achieved a sensitivity of 93% and specificity of 95% in one early Singapore-based pilot study that involved 180 patients. The city-state will screen incoming travelers from Malaysia at the Tuas Checkpoint on the western side of the island in a deployment trial of the breathalyzers, the Straits Times reported. Anyone who tests positive in the breath test would be screened in a confirmatory PCR swab test. Singapore currently screens entrants with antigen rapid tests, which would continue alongside the breathalyzers. Japan’s large-scale vaccination centers in Tokyo and Osaka opened from Monday, as the government pushes towards the goal to administer 1 million doses a day and finish inoculating the country’s 36 million over-65s by the end of July.The venues will use Moderna Inc.’s vaccine. A total of 7,500 people are expected to get the shots at the venues on the first day, according to broadcaster NHK. Japan has been slow in its vaccination drive, with local municipalities largely responsible for inoculating its residents with vaccine developed by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE. Empty Saloma Link bridge during a nationwide Movement Control Order (MCO) in Kuala Lumpur, on May 12. Photographer: Samsul Said/Bloomberg In new rules imposed in Malaysia from May 25, businesses will only be allowed to operate from 8 a.m until 8 p.m. daily, while about 80% of government officers and 40% of private sector employees will work from home, with the move affecting 7 million to 8 million workers. High-risk places will be shut immediately and usage of public transportation will be limited to 50% capacity. Further guidelines for the economy are expected to be announced. The moves are an attempt by Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin to tamp down new infections without derailing the nascent economic recovery by imposing a nationwide lockdown. Singapore said it will conduct more targeted testing and surveillance operations to curb a coronavirus outbreak. “Special ops” such as testing all residents in a particular housing apartment block, will help detect and isolate people early, including those who show few or no symptoms and would otherwise be missed, Health Minister Ong Ye Kungsaid in a Facebook post Sunday. Bobby the retriever dog next to a positive sweat sample in a test to detect Covid-19 in Bangkok on May 21. Photographer: Lillian Suwanrumpha/AFP/Getty Images Covid-sniffing dogs could be used to detect the coronavirus at ports of entry, potentially reducing long waits at testing lines and strengthening efforts to contain transmission, according to a U.K. study. Two dogs could accurately scan 300 plane passengers in about half an hour as part of a rapid screening strategy, scientists from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine said in research published Monday. Then only the people selected by the dogs would need to undergo a PCR test. Three researchers from the Wuhan Institute of Virology sought hospital care in November 2019, about the time when experts say the coronavirus began circulating around the Chinese city, the Wall Street Journal reported. The P4 laboratory on the campus of the Wuhan Institute of Virology on May 27. Photographer: Hector Retamal/AFP/Getty Images The newspaper cited a previously undisclosed U.S. intelligence report that could bolster the theory that the pandemic began at the laboratory, which studied coronaviruses. No official conclusion has been made about the origin of the virus, and many nations, including the U.S., have criticized China for a lack transparency, without overtly embracing the lab-leak theory, which had been pushed by the Trump administration. Falling hospitalizations from Covid-19 show a “rapidly-declining vulnerability” in the U.S., as the people getting infected -- sharply falling, but still averaging over 25,000 a day in the past week -- tend to be younger and less vulnerable to complications, said former FDA commissioner Scott Gottlieb. Scott Gottlieb Photographer: Toya Sarno Jordan/Bloomberg Gottlieb said on CBS that many in the U.S. are gradually recalibrating their approach to masks, social distancing and other measures as cases and deaths fall sharply. “We need to make a judgment about what our comfort is. A lot of people have spent a year wearing masks and taking precautions, so it will take some time for us to get comfortable again going into settings without those precautions,” he said. A vaccination site at a church in Long Beach, New York, on May 13. Photographer: Johnny Milano/Bloomberg The U.S. reported just over 18,700 new cases Saturday, capping the first week since June with no days of infections exceeding 30,000, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg. Average daily infections dropped to about 25,600, compared with almost 217,500 at the end of the first week that vaccines were rolled out in the U.S. in mid-December. A further 481 fatalities were recorded, capping a week with the fewest fatalities since the end of March 2020. The U.K. government pushed back on claims from the former chief aide of Prime Minister Boris Johnson that officials pursued a herd-immunity strategy in the early days of the pandemic. Dominic Cummings unleashed a series of tweets on Saturday criticizing the U.K.’s response. Dominic Cummings Photographer: Chris J. Ratcliffe/Bloomberg He said that letting enough citizens become infected in order to reach natural herd immunity was the “official plan in all docs/graphs/meetings” until early March 2020, when it became clear that such a policy would lead to catastrophe. When asked about the allegations in an interview on the BBC on Sunday, Home Secretary Priti Patel said that was “not at all” the plan. Jenny Harries, chief executive of the U.K. Health Security Agency, also said it wasn’t the nation’s strategy. Germany’s health minister, Jens Spahn, has promised a wide-ranging easing of pandemic restrictions during the summer if the country’s seven-day incidence rate falls below 20. “Last summer the rate was below 20. We should aim for that again,” Spahn told the Sunday edition of Bild. According to the Robert Koch Institute, Germany has a seven-seven-day incidence rate of 64.5. That means that there are 64.5 new infections per 100,000 individuals over a period of seven days. Federal health officials are ramping up their surveillance of the highly transmissible Covid-19 variant first identified in India, as experts warn that under-vaccinated areas in the U.S. could become hot spots for the mutation. While U.S. cases attributed to the B.1.617 variant currently sit below 1%, the growth rate remains unclear due to the small sample size. One science group said the strain could be as much as 50% more transmissible than B.1.1.7, the variant that emerged from the U.K. That mutation was first seen in the U.S. in late December, and is now dominant nationally. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is investigating “relatively few” reports of a heart problem in adolescents and young adults after a Covid-19 vaccination. A report from a meeting of the agency’s safety group on May 17 said that most discovered cases of myocarditis “appear to be mild” and could be unrelated to vaccinations. Myocarditis is an inflammation of the heart muscle often found after an infection. The cases were mostly in adolescents and young adults and more often in males than females. The report added that the cases occurred more often after a second dose than the first and were typically found within four days after infection. — With assistance by Ian Fisher, Chiara Remondini, Katharine Gemmell, Yueqi Yang, Ros Krasny, Gaspard Sebag, Linus Chua, and Go Onomitsu