European Union negotiators agreed on the introduction of mutually recognizable certificates that will allow quarantine-free travel within the bloc, offering the region’s battered tourist industry a chance to salvage the summer season. The EU’s Covid-19 certificates, which will be issued free of charge in digital or paper format, will offer proof their holders have been inoculated against the coronavirus, have recovered from the illness or have a recent negative test. All EU member states will accept visitors who hold the passes, without asking them to quarantine. The move to ease travel within the EU follows a deal between member states this week to also allow tourists from outside the bloc to visit if they’ve been fully vaccinated at least 14 days prior to their arrival. Read More: Europe to Reopen for Travel, Easing Rules for American Tourists There are also plans for a “white list” of non-EU countries with low infection rates, from which travelers will be exempt from the vaccination requirement. However, talks among the bloc’s member states about which nations should be included have stalled, and its publication may be postponed for two weeks, according to three diplomats familiar with the matter. As a result, only fully vaccinated Americans and British residents would be welcomed for the time being. One of the diplomats said that several member states, including Germany, were skeptical about adding Japan and the U.K. to the list because they are concerned about the emergence of new Covid-19 variants. A decision is now expected in two weeks when the list is next due to be updated, the person added. The new rules, agreed between representatives of the European Parliament and the bloc’s 27 governments on Thursday, are still subject to a formal approval process before they are enacted into law, applying across the EU at the end of June. Crucially, EU member states will also accept proof of vaccination issued by non-European governments. Still, with the bulk of the population in the U.S., the U.K., and the EU due to be vaccinated by July, the new rules will allow a gradual rise in travel, handing a boost to tourism-dependent economies such as Croatia, Cyprus, Spain and Portugal. All 27 nations will be required to accept vaccinations with shots approved by the bloc’s drugs regulator. They are also allowed to accept those cleared for use by the World Health Organization. Individual countries such as Greece already accept visitors able to offer vaccination proof or a negative test, without asking them to quarantine. The new EU-wide streamlined rules will replace national vaccination certificates and a group of EU members is already running test versions of the system. A gauge of European travel and leisure stocks has gained 13.5% this year, amid expectations that an accelerating vaccination rollout will boost airlines and hotels following an unprecedented slump in 2020. — With assistance by Alberto Nardelli, and Katharina Rosskopf