In the Minneapolis semi-autonomous zone now known as George Floyd Square, the one-year anniversary of George Floyd’s death was not just a memorial, or a dance party. It was another day of occupation. For the past year, the area around the intersection of East 38th Street and Chicago Avenue, the site of Floyd’s killing in May 2020, has been off-limits to cars, and, for the most part, free of cops. A multiracial community group led by Black women that has been meeting twice daily at the square for a year has said that they will continue to occupy the square until the city meets a list of 24 demands for justice, but many would like to make the memorial and pedestrian access permanent. One of the demands is to keep the zone until the trials of all four officers involved in Floyd’s murder are complete, with the last three starting in August; others focus on investing in jobs and businesses in the neighborhood and providing transparency in past police killing cases. “That’s the bare minimum of what we could have possibly asked,” said Mileesha Smith, an organizer, as she laid “F*ck the Police” pins out on a table. They’re facing off with Mayor Jacob Frey, who spoke briefly at a sparsely attended May 25 memorial several miles away in downtown Minneapolis. In February, he pledged to open the square to cars after Chauvin’s trial in April, saying the occupation has contributed to rising crime rates, though community advocates point out that gang violence isn’t new in the surrounding wards, and mirrors a nationwide surge in Democrat and Republican-led cities alike. But that hasn’t happened yet. Frey appears amenable to some compromise, favoring a “phased reconnection of the intersection,” his office said, that creates a permanent memorial to Floyd. Other possibilities include building a roundabout featuring the Black Power fist statue that was erected in the days after his death. In an April press conference, Frey said that “there will be a reopening of the intersection, but it is not going back to normal,” adding that he wanted to allow a rapid bus route to run through the intersection. The police chief, too, wants the streets reopened, but Minneapolis police spokesperson John Elder said in email that the “decision is being made by the elected officials and is out of our hands.” Some activists and others in the community fear that if the streets re-open, “normal” won’t be far off. “If they just returned it to normal, presumably normal would return,” said Neal Baxter, who organizes on 38th and Chicago. “And I don’t know how that would look.” The square is called semi-autonomous in part because of the limited police intervention within its borders. Blocked off to most traffic first by activists’ makeshift obstacles, then by cement barricades placed by the city last June, it’s become home to a flourishing network of volunteer groups and nonprofits that help operate the self-sustained community: There’s a clothing library and a community book shelf; volunteer medics and informal patrol groups that emerged during last year’s protests continue to roam. Garden plots teem with herbs and flowers, many of them donated from visitors to the memorial. When potholes form, volunteers fill them; when structures holding art break, volunteers mend them. Under an abandoned gas station, activists who relayed the original demands for the square — united under the slogan “no justice, no streets” — meet twice daily on wooden benches. To try to maintain peace, organizers have created five “assumptions” for George Floyd square. Organizer Marcia Howard recited them in a planning meeting the morning before the one-year memorial: “Assume that everybody in this square may be carrying Covid,” she said. “Mask up or back up. Number two, assume everyone in this square is armed. Please be patient and polite.” The next morning, these assumptions became relevant. As organizers and volunteers began setting up for a day of performances, speeches and other events, the sound of several shots rang out across the square. Panicked and confused, people ducked for cover behind trash cans and porta-potties. But volunteers directed people west away from the square, groups of people gathered to debrief and decompress, and soon, everyone got back to work. Then, the blazing hot afternoon turned celebratory. Music played over speakers, and people breakdanced, chanted, laid flowers under the names of others lost to police violence, ate barbecue and rollerbladed. A crowd knelt in front of Cup Foods for 9 minutes and 29 seconds, commemorating the time officer Derek Chauvin knelt on Floyd’s neck. A group from Durham, North Carolina, laid out a quilt honoring Black people across the country lost to gun violence. After nightfall, candles lit up a vigil. By the end of the day, the morning’s gunshots remained a mystery to people at the square. One person sustained non life-threatening injuries, police told Bloomberg CityLab. The details of the incident remain unknown, and Baxter said it could have been instigated by people who wanted to disrupt the day’s events. “People are worked up,” he said. “It doesn’t take much to make any of us who have been down here for a year aggravated.” Within the radius of 38th and Chicago and just outside its borders, many residents said this past year has brought them closer than ever to their neighbors, some of whom they hadn’t ever spoken to before. “Quite honestly, the longer I’ve been in this, I mean, this is such a beautiful community,” said Jenny Jones, another 38th and Chicago organizer. “And I don’t understand why there needs to be traffic going through here.” Pouya Najmaie, a founding member of a nearby neighborhood patrol group called the Powderhorn Safety Collective, believes that without the activists holding space and bringing life to the square, violence could have been much worse. He wants the space limited to pedestrians as part of a push for justice, but also as a formalized community corridor in years to come. “I think if it’s a pain for people, it should be. We should remind people of what happened in the system that we're currently living under,” he said. “And then maybe one day if the system is different, it will remind people that look, that’s what happened. The reason you can’t go through here, the reason this beautiful area is set up here, the reason it's so lively — because I’m sure it would be — is because of what happened here: The fight for, hopefully, something to change.” Others resent the square, connecting it to a rise in gun violence in the city. A city poll of 929 city residents within a one-mile radius of the square found that 65% wanted it reopened for vehicle traffic, but the city acknowledged that the small sample size skewed much whiter and older than the area at large. And even as business owners recognize the corner’s significance, some have found it hard to survive the double economic whammy of the pandemic and the street closures. “Nobody comes in,” said Cubtan Nur, the manager of a home care PCA agency on 38th and Chicago. She says more than half of her clients have left in the past year, in part because they can’t access the office. Her lease is month to month, and she’s looking for another space. “If this will go on like this forever, then I can’t handle that. I’ll move.” As a symbol of the change that Minneapolis has been challenged to make, and the global spotlight that’s been trained on the city, the square was a fitting site to commemorate Floyd’s life and the lives of others lost to police violence. Jay Webb, who tends the gardens in the square, said he’s seen visitors from Kenosha, Wisconsin; Georgia; and Alabama over the past year. “Everybody in the world could have gone to the Washington Monument, but they came here, to George Floyd Square, because they’re tired of the bullsh*t,” he said. “Everyone’s fed up.” George Floyd’s murder kicked off a national conversation about police reforms, changes that have been slow in coming. In Minneapolis, it’s been hard to separate stilted efforts on that front from the future of the square. Julia Eagles, who’s lived within a few blocks of the square for a decade, says the community ties forged out of necessity in the wake of last year’s uprising are an example of what a world less reliant on law enforcement could look like. “It’s not like every neighbor is really enthralled with the square, or certainly have the same opinions about what we should do for public safety,” she said. “But I feel like: Let’s model the solutions.” Shirley Jaiyesimi, 81, came to the square on Tuesday in honor of her grandson, Dominic Felder, who was shot seven times and killed by the Minneapolis Police in 2006. “I thought about him,” when Floyd died, she said, sitting on a folding chair in the shade of a laundromat. “He didn’t have that back then. People just forgot about it.”