In yet another twist to UniCredit SpA’s debt saga, some bondholders received notice of a coupon payment the lender said it would skip. Holders of the 2.98 billion euro ($3.6 billion) bonds got the notification on Tuesday, when the payment was due, according to two people familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified because they aren’t authorized to speak publicly. The securities rose the most since May 2020, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Despite the notice, a spokesperson for UniCredit confirmed the bank’s decision not to settle the coupon, and said it has not given anyone a mandate to do so. Even if the bank didn’t pay it, an error may have arisen from the bonds’ complicated structure, with different banks serving as depository and fiduciary for the instruments. It’s also possible that Euroclear paid the coupon into client accounts, or erroneously sent a code notifying clients of a payment. A Euroclear spokesperson declined to comment. If it was an error and money was transferred to bondholders, it would raise questions over whether investors will need to return the funds -- and who will be on the hook for the payment if not. This type of mishap is rare in debt markets, though mistakes do happen. It recalls a battle between Citigroup Inc. and various investors after the U.S. bank accidentally sent half a billion dollars to a group of Revlon Inc. lenders last summer. It recently lost another round in its fight to reclaim the money. More recently, Spanish utility company Iberdrola SA misstated the interest rate on a newly-issued bond. In UniCredit’s case, the notice on the bonds caused confusion among investors because it came days after the bank said it wouldn’t settle the coupon, citing its net loss in 2020. That decision -- which was taken by newly appointed Chief Executive Officer Andrea Orcel -- stunned bondholders, who were assured on earnings calls this year that the coupons would be paid. Given the notes’ terms, the bank could also skip the next three coupons, even though UniCredit took steps last year to update terms of the so-called CASHES, short for Convertible and Subordinated Hybrid Equity-Linked Securities, allowing it to pay the coupons after reporting a loss or without distributing a dividend. Read More: Orcel’s Bond-Payment Gamble Risks Ire for UniCredit Savings The notes are highly complex securities issued more than a decade ago in the aftermath of the financial crisis. Investors in this type of legacy bond contend not only with unpredictable decisions by lenders, but also labyrinthine regulations and often-tortuous terms that can be interpreted in different ways. They’ve already been the subject of controversy after a London hedge fund accused the bank of boosting its capital strength by misclassifying them. The issue fizzled after the European Banking Authority sided with the bank, saying it found “no clear evidence” to support the hedge fund’s claim. The bank’s Additional Tier 1 bonds, a newer-style capital security, were little changed. The CASHES are still quoted more than 9 cents on the euro lower than prior to the news of the coupon skip last week. Just a few weeks into the job, Orcel -- known for his work ethic and single-minded approach at UBS Group AG -- has already slimmed down the management ranks and cut back on co-head structures to simplify decision-making at UniCredit. Earlier this month, the bank joined European peers in posting stronger-than-expected first quarter results amid a surge in trading and lower provisions for bad loans. It’s planning to distribute 447 million euros in a mix of cash dividends and share buybacks on 2020 earnings to comply with the European Central Bank’s limits on capital returns. Once that ban is lifted, UniCredit plans an additional 652 million-euro buyback. — With assistance by Antonio Vanuzzo, and Steven Arons