The White House asked for the resignations on Monday of several members of the federal agency that reviews design and aesthetic decisions for buildings in the city of Washington, D.C., including its chairman, according to the now-former chair, Justin Shubow. Four members of the U.S. Commission on Fine Arts were told to tender their resignations by Monday evening or consider their positions terminated, said Shubow, who shared a copy of a letter from the White House with Bloomberg CityLab. The Commission on Fine Arts is an independent federal agency that reviews and advises decisions about memorials, monuments and buildings in D.C., among other topics; its seven commissioners serve four-year terms. Shubow, a classical architecture advocate and president of the nonprofit National Civic Art Society, has served on the commission since 2018. Shubow and the other commissioners who were asked to leave — sculptor  Chas Fagan, landscape architect  Perry Guillot and architect  Steven Spandle — were appointed by President Donald Trump, as were the three remaining commissioners, designer and developer Rodney Mims Cook, Jr., architect James C. McCrery, II, and architect Duncan G. Stroik. “In the commission’s 110-year history, no president has ever removed a commissioner,” says Shubow, a claim that could not be immediately verified. “It sets a terrible precedent to remove any of us and represents a politicization of a body that has been apolitical.” The White House confirmed the action, noting that the counsel’s office advised that President Joe Biden has the authority to remove the commissioners, whose staunch support for classical architecture does not align with his values. Bloomberg CityLab has requested comment from Guillot, Spandle and Fagan. On Thursday, the White House said that President Biden intends to appoint four new names to the commission: Peter Cook, principal for HGA Architects, whose projects include the National Museum of African American History and Culture and the Embassy of South Africa; Hazel Ruth Edwards, professor and chair of Howard University’s department of architecture; Justin Garrett Moore, the inaugural program officer for the Humanities in Place program at the Andrew Mellon Foundation; and Billie Tsien, partner for Todd Williams Billie Tsien Architects, the firm designing the Barack Obama Presidential Center. The quartet represents a diverse departure from the all-white commission assembled by Trump, with high-profile names from across the architecture and planning fields. Architecture emerged as an unusually divisive topic during the last year of the Trump administration, which  pushed for traditional design to take priority in federal procurements, prompting an outcry among architects and progressives. A  rumored classical-only architecture mandate for federal buildings never materialized, although Trump signed an executive order in December that required new federal buildings to be “beautiful.” Solicitations for   at least two federal courthouses specifically called for classical designs. Shubow was central to those efforts. An almost comically committed opponent of modernist design, he has proposed rebuilding the original neoclassical Penn Station in New York, which was demolished in 1963. Through the nonprofit National Civic Art Society, he led a years-long campaign against Frank Gehry’s design for the Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial, a commemorative plaza that depicts scenes from his political and military careers, which opened in September. Shubow lobbed rhetorical bombs against Gehry, eventually elevating those objections into hearings and delays from Congress. “The statue of Ike as a Kansas farmer-boy mocks the president as cornpone in chief, the supreme allied bumpkin,” read a typically blustering dispatch from Shubow that graced  The New York Times in 2012, concerning an early vision for the memorial that depicted Eisenhower as a barefoot boy surrounded by scenes of his adult accomplishments. Shubow’s organization   sponsored a poll last year that asked Americans to weigh pictures of classical federal buildings against modernist ones; most pulled the lever for tradition. Forced exits at the Commission on Fine Arts follow other steps by the Biden administration to walk back Trump’s directives on design. Biden revoked the “beautiful” federal buildings order in February; earlier this month, he canceled an executive order that authorized the National Garden of American Heroes, a promenade through U.S. history framed by realistic-looking statues. That same Trump order required artworks placed in federal buildings to take the form of presidential busts and other historical objects (as opposed to abstract paintings). Three of the four outgoing commissioners were appointed late in Trump’s term, although they filled natural vacancies left by Obama appointees. Two of them executed projects for former First Lady Melania Trump: Guillot designed a controversial revamp for the Rose Garden while Spandle designed a similarly controversial Tennis Pavilion for the White House. “I believe that the three commissioners and I would never have been threatened if we weren’t advocates for classical and traditional art and architecture,” says Shubow. “This is an attack on the style of design that is favored by the vast majority of the American people.”