The shuttering of many public schools to in-person learning for a year has unleashed an avalanche of physical and mental health consequences for children. As pediatricians, we are seeing rising rates of obesity and related high blood pressure and liver disease that could take years to reverse. The pediatric mental health system, which was overburdened before the pandemic, is now overwhelmed in many parts of the country. In our practices, we have seen increasing number of children and adolescents presenting with sadness, depression, anxiety, eating disorders and suicidality. But we were failing our kids long before the pandemic: The rapidly unfolding climate crisis is also profoundly shaping the physical and mental health of U.S. children. How we choose to come together or how we come apart will determine the fate of this generation and generations to come. As pediatricians and mothers, our political and ethical true north is the well-being of children. That’s why we are passionate and committed climate activists — because we know that climate change poses an urgent threat to children’s health, while climate action has immediate child health benefits. Over the past year, we have found ourselves enmeshed in school reopening debates in our respective cities out of a similar deep concern for the health of children. The consequences of extended school closures are dwarfed by the existential catastrophe of global warming, and yet we have been struck by parallels between the climate crisis and Covid response. In both cases, children’s rights and needs have not been prioritized, despite enormous risk of long-term harm. And in both cases, science denial and resource scarcity have perpetuated injustice. Climate change is a crisis of inequity. Nations that burn the most fossil fuels are at lowest risk from rising seas. Families most likely to drive SUVs live farthest from sources of air pollution. Communities that consume the most goods have more tree cover and green space and are literally cooler than their neighbors with less wealth. But most of all — and encompassing the injustices of geography, race and wealth — climate change is a crisis of intergenerational inequity. Today’s children bear no blame for impending ecological collapse, but will suffer most from an increasingly hot and unpredictable world. Similarly, while children have neither been the primary drivers of Covid spread nor the population at highest risk of illness, they have suffered disproportionately from our cascading and uniquely American failures to respond with a coherent moral frame. Cities rushed to reopen bars, restaurants and indoor gyms while schools remained shuttered, fueling waves of infection that further stymied efforts to reopen schools. Months after the lack of risk in outdoor spaces was established, otherwise progressive cities engaged in acts of performative safety that needlessly penalized children, such as keeping parks and playgrounds closed. And as the data became increasingly clear that reopening schools could be safe, even in settings of high community spread, the fear had become so hardened, the inertia so profound, and the politics so fraught that the science fell on deaf ears. Children sat in virtual school and watched as everything opened around them, learning how little their needs matter compared to the desires of the grownups running the world. When casinos are opened before kindergartens, what does that say about who we are and what we prioritize? Climate change and Covid school closures are slow-moving problems whose enormity will unfold over time. In addition to physical and mental health effects, we worry what this year of lost learning will mean for a lifetime of health, particularly for low-income children and children of color. The amount and quality of education children complete is itself a predictor for health and mortality. From young children who will have missed critical periods of learning, to teenagers who dropped out from virtual high school and will never graduate, we are concerned about the cascading and ongoing effects in children’s health that this generation may never fully recover from. When we tried to tell our patients’ stories and relate the data on both safe school opening and harms to children of school closure, we found that fear, and possibly political allegiances, prevented our message from being heard. In each of our cities, the tensions between teachers’ unions, health professionals, elected officials, and parent advocacy groups became perilously toxic. The tragedy is that all sides in this debate believe in doing the best for our kids, and yet, in a stressful situation where misinformation has been rampant, natural allies have turned on each other. Meanwhile, in several predominantly urban districts, there is still no clear plan to have all children K-12 back to five days of in-person learning. About half of U.S. public schools remain partially closed. Black, Hispanic and Asian-American students are in remote learning at higher rates, which could have profound and lifelong consequences to their health. If we failed to center and prioritize children when it comes to school reopening, how will we come together for the larger looming climate crisis? These are collective challenges that require collective resolve and sacrifice. The historically “American creed” of rugged individualism has resulted in the erosion of common purpose. When wearing a mask is framed as an assault on individual liberty, or when casinos are opened before kindergartens, what does that say about who we are, what we prioritize, or what we are willing to contribute for the greater good? To navigate out of the school reopening mess, we first have to agree that in-person learning is good for children’s physical, social, developmental and mental health and well-being. This can start with better public health campaigns on the importance of in-person learning led by local and state public health officials, supported by the American Federation of Teachers, whose leader recently advocated that all U.S. public schools must be open to in-person learning for five days a week. What’s been missing is consistent and clear messaging with concerted outreach by public health officials and union leaders on the harms of remote learning and the safety of an in-person education, with the appropriate precautions. This allowed fear and misinformation to drive decision-making on a local level. We also have to agree that public education is a public good and fund it that way. Public schools have long faced chronic disinvestment, so it is not surprising that teachers’ unions dug in to protect themselves. But this resulted in parents digging in to protect their children, producing an impasse on the collective path forward. With climate change worsening existing stressors of poverty, food insecurity, and stable access to housing and healthcare due to extreme weather, our resources will be stretched to a breaking point in a system where everyone is left to fend for themselves. We have seen from the struggle of school reopening how we can too easily turn on each other rather than come together for a common purpose. We recognize that the process of returning to school may be far from perfect or one-size-fits-all. Schools operate within the context of structural racism and have historically perpetuated racist systems. Many schools have been places where students’ safety was not prioritized even before the pandemic, contributing to valid parental mistrust of school systems. These issues require attention, investment and real change. Despite widespread agreement that all kids must return in-person in the fall, battle lines are being drawn on the possibility of some continued remote or hybrid learning in the next school year. We must recognize that this risks compounding harms to children’s physical and mental health and exacerbating pediatric health disparities. With new federal leadership and more funding for schools and families from the stimulus package, we are beginning to feel hopeful again. There is much work to do in repairing the wounds left in this school reopening debate, but for the sake of our kids we need to come together. Finding this path forward can leave us with the knowledge and resolve we will need to apply to heal our kids and our planet, with a shared sense of purpose for creating the world our children deserve. Aparna Bole, M.D., is a pediatrician in Cleveland. Lisa Patel, M.D., is a pediatrician in San Francisco. Elizabeth Pinsky, M.D., is a child & adolescent psychiatrist in Boston.