Last December, Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti announced that the city would become “an unmistakable leader on urban mobility.” Tech companies designing futuristic “low-noise electric aircraft” — think flying cars — would be invited to join a new, first-of-its-kind Urban Air Mobility Partnership that L.A. would help launch through Urban Movement Labs, a public-private organization closely tied to the mayor’s office. The popular response was skeptical, to put it mildly. Curbed’s Alissa Walker was dismissive: “City leaders are, once again, distracted by (the extremely uncertain prospect of) a shiny, whirring object while ignoring the most basic, everyday transportation needs of regular Angelenos.” University of Southern California urban planning professor Geoff Boeing was even more blunt: “Oh FFS why can’t the mayor and LADOT give us something actually useful like a coherent network of protected bike lanes or bus only lanes?” he tweeted. Others noted that the flying car that already exists,  the helicopter, inspires near-universal loathing among city residents. A few commenters went further, charging that the mayor’s focus on making room for tomorrow’s airborne taxis might make it harder for today’s Los Angeles to become an inclusive, sustainable city. Though many of the companies vying to develop small, low-emission aircraft for short urban trips insist that these journeys will eventually become price-competitive with terrestrial ride hail, it’s hard to see how such a pricey technology could boost equity. Worse, the ease of soaring over congested highways could inspire the aerial equivalent of  induced demand. Even assuming these aircraft are electric, those extra journeys would lead to more emissions. Trips might become longer, too, as the affluent opt to live further from the urban core. “Flying cars represent the technological apotheosis of sprawl,” Kevin DeGood of the Center for American Progress wrote in his damning appraisal of this  long-deferred dream mode last year, warning that the vehicles would “confer advantages on direct users while exacerbating the geographic isolation of elites.” Los Angeles officials defended the mayor’s stance, suggesting that the emergence of flying taxis is all but inevitable. “Reminder for folks that the private sector is not stopping their investments in transportation technology,” tweeted Marcel Porras, a senior official at the Los Angeles Department of Transportation. “We can’t afford to say no and put our heads in the sand.” Porras had a point: Flying car companies (and the venture firms backing them) are heavily invested, literally, in the development and eventual adoption of their vehicles; just one company, Joby Aviation, has raised $795 million, in the process  absorbing Uber’s aerial taxi division. Most decisions about the legality of these machines will be made at the federal level, constraining cities’ ability to affect their deployment. “We want to figure out how to do this effectively and thoughtfully,” says Clint Harper, who now leads the Urban Air Mobility Partnership. “I’m not here to facilitate urban air mobility for the sake of urban air mobility.” But where does that leave urban residents  who don’t want flying cars at all, in any form? It’s a question relevant for other technologies as well. Another once-fanciful future transportation technology, autonomous vehicles, have attracted even more investment than flying cars, and Congress is considering a bill that would loosen federal regulations to allow more of them — regardless of what local officials may prefer. Do urban residents still have the ability to look at a new technology and say, “No, we don’t want this?” To answer, consider how some mobility revolutions of yore did or did not get off the ground. After the Civil War, steam-powered road vehicles seemed poised to fulfill the desire for “a cheap mechanical substitute for the horse,” as the New York Times said in 1868. (Horse droppings were becoming both a nuisance and a public health menace in growing U.S. cities.) Powered by steam engines fired with wood and later with coal, these Victorian-era conveyances came in a range of shapes and sizes, often no larger than a buggy. A small army of inventors tinkered with models that could travel over 20 miles per hour, with far more power than a horse. But the technology was a work-in-progress. In 1878, seven owners of steam vehicles registered for a race from Green Bay to Madison, Wisconsin, with the winner eligible for a $10,000 prize. Only two vehicles ultimately competed, and just one finished the race — in 33 hours, at an average speed of 6 mph. (Some 125 years later, the seven-figure prize money of the DARPA Grand Challenge would spur the race to develop autonomous vehicles.) Nevertheless, in the first meeting of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, held in 1883, the association’s president predicted that such vehicles would soon be ubiquitous on urban streets. Many city residents were deeply uneasy with that vision. As the late historian Clay McShane described in his book Down the Asphalt Path, “steamers” were dirty and noisy, and their immense weight tore up urban pavement. Worse, the boilers of steam engines had a terrifying habit of exploding. That was bad enough in a rural area, but it could be catastrophic in a neighborhood or an industrial zone. In 1867 alone, McShane documented boiler explosions in several cities — including Philadelphia, Newark, Cleveland, New York City and Milwaukee — that collectively claimed dozens of lives. Across the Atlantic, Great Britain’s Parliament responded by enacting the “Red Flag Law” in 1865. The law required a person to walk in front of the steam vehicle, waving a flag to warn passers-by. In the U.S., cities and counties dominated 19th century transportation policy, and many local leaders saw steamers as a non-starter. Chicago and Northampton, Massachusetts, banned them outright, with many others imposed severe restrictions. When Oldsmobile founder Ransom Olds built his first steamers in the 1880s in Lansing, Michigan, he limited his test rides to between 3 a.m. and 4 a.m. to minimize annoyance to neighbors. They complained anyway. Olds eventually abandoned steam and switched to internal combustion as the age of automobiles began. So did most of his competitors, and the advantages of petroleum-fueled motors eventually closed the door on the development of boiler-powered cars. But McShane concluded that steam vehicles “failed mostly because of regulation, not mechanical inefficiency.” With an eye toward popular opinion, public leaders had effectively overruled the inventors and boosters, judging the technology to be a net loser for their communities. Regulators’ concerns are understandable; after all, provision of streets and protection of public health are core government responsibilities. Steam vehicles are not the only example of public officials rejecting a hot new mobility innovation. In the 1910s, private car owners began picking up strangers in their horseless carriages and charging a small fee to transport them on their way, giving rise to the “jitney.” Street railway companies mounted furious opposition to these new competitors. “The jitney took all the high-profit, high-density trips, leaving the low-density, low-profit trips for the railways,” says Peter Norton, a history professor at the University of Virginia who focuses on transportation. “The railways had a legitimate argument on those grounds.” The jitneys were soon banned (though unregulated cabs continued to operate in many U.S. cities). When Uber and Lyft revived the concept for the digital age, public transit officials who complained about the companies poaching profitable downtown trips were echoing the objections of rail companies a century earlier. Beyond pushback from incumbent industries, simple public annoyance can also prompt popular opposition to a new transportation technology. Micromobility seems to have a knack for attracting the ire of certain urban residents, going back to the 1880s, when riding a bicycle was forbidden in New York City’s Central Park. More recently, cities like Nashville have sought to ban electric scooters, citing safety concerns that can seem like a fig leaf (such critics seldom have much to say about automobiles, which are far more deadly). For better or for worse, each of these examples — both contemporary and historical — involves urban residents and elected leaders grappling with the societal impact of a new mobility mode. “Opposition to a new transportation technology can be based on vested interests, on NIMBYism, or on genuine problems,” says Norton. “I don’t think we can ever fully extricate these things.” The debates may be messy, but they have taken place in public, with city residents and their officials deciding whether a newly-deployed technology deserves an enthusiastic welcome or a cease-and-desist notice. Over the last century, state and federal governments have assumed an expanded role regulating transportation technologies, often at the expense of local oversight. A century ago, Cincinnati residents voted on a proposal to require automobiles within the city to have speed governors that prevented cars from exceeding 25 mph. (After a huge lobbying push from the auto industry, the proposal was rejected.) Such a policy would be impossible for a city to adopt now, because the federal government dictates national automobile design through the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards. State involvement in transportation tech has expanded as well. When Austin voters approved a 2016 measure requiring ride hail drivers to undergo fingerprint checks, Uber and Lyft turned to the Texas state legislature, which then overrode cities’ ability to set their own rules. Another example: Less than a year ago, state officials in Pennsylvania blocked cities from even trying to regulate sidewalk drones — in the process upending a public-private agreement in Pittsburgh. “Preemption” refers to such instances when a state assumes responsibilities traditionally held by cities, or when the federal government overrules the states. Defenders of preemption say they seek to streamline “patchworks” of local or state policies that can complicate deployment. Automakers are making that argument now, as they push for federal oversight of autonomous vehicle rules. But at times they’ve made the opposite argument. In his book Unsafe at Any Speed, Ralph Nader described how car companies fought against the establishment of national motor vehicle safety laws in the 1960s: “Should the federal government become involved, it might upset the time-tested accommodation which the industry has developed with state administration and legislators. The saying among automobile men is: ‘We know the state tiger and what it likes to eat.’” Indeed, the recent push toward preemption seems fundamentally rooted in power: Tech and car companies today have more influence in many state capitols than in city halls, and — unlike 60 years ago — they can often lobby Congress even more easily than state governments. That’s a worrisome trend for cities, particularly as a slew of new transportation technologies are emerging. Because people (and money) concentrate in urban areas, cities are the preferred testing grounds for all kinds of new vehicles and modes, ranging from ride hail to sidewalk drones to autonomous shuttles. Thanks to preemption, urban residents may not have recourse if they and their elected leaders decide that a new technology should be restricted or banned. In effect, the decisions will be made for them, by federal or state officials representing rural and suburban communities that are less likely to experience the technologies’ risks and downsides. After all, it’s those living in cities — not the countryside — who endure the most helicopter noise today, and who face the greatest risk of gridlock from autonomous vehicles in the future. Which brings us back to the blow-up in Los Angeles last December over flying cars. As concerned as local residents may be about vehicles whizzing through the skies, city officials are correct that the technology may come regardless of whether cities want it. “There’s a gray area right now for low-altitude air space,” says Harper of the Urban Air Mobility Partnership. “The reality is, with FAA regulations, we could in short time see them flying between existing air facilities.” He acknowledges the limitations of what the city can do. “To some degree, we’re preempted.” If that seems anti-democratic, it should. With their scarcity of space and dense concentration of people who need to get around, cities have traditionally faced the most controversy — and the most risk — when an unproven new mode arrives. As preemption becomes entrenched, it’s an open question whether they’ll still have a say about the vehicles rumbling along the street or buzzing overhead.David Zipper is a visiting fellow at the Harvard Kennedy School's Taubman Center for State and Local Government, where he examines the interplay between urban policy and new mobility technologies.