In the financial mecca of Singapore, a new crowd is flocking to its offices: technology companies. Steadily growing their footprint in recent years, tech behemoths are chipping away at the dominance of banks in the island-state’s central business district. Exemplifying the trend,  Amazon.com Inc. recently leased space in Asia Square Tower 1, while  ByteDance Ltd. secured floors in the landmark One Raffles Quay. That’s good news for developers and real estate investors at a time when the coronavirus pandemic is upending work practices around the world, raising questions about the future of the office.  Citigroup Inc.,  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. are among banks that are  trimming space in the Southeast Asian hub, accelerating a trend that began even before the health crisis. The financial industry used to be the main driver of office demand in Singapore, taking up almost half of new space between 2004 and 2014. That share plunged to 26% between 2015 and 2020, according to estimates by real estate consultancy firm  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. Over the same period, the portion obtained by tech firms almost tripled to 22%. Financial firms were forced to trim workspace because of the pandemic and “that’s probably not a great thing,” said Alan Miyasaki, head of Asia real estate acquisitions at Blackstone Group Inc. “But that vacancy was snapped up really quickly because there was a lot of these technology firms coming in.” Singapore is seeing tech companies take up more new office space Source: Jones Lang LaSalle  U.S. and Chinese tech giants are capitalizing on Singapore’s position as a gateway to Southeast Asia’s 650 million smartphone-savvy population. Amazon is taking over three floors that Citigroup is giving up, while TikTok parent ByteDance is leasing three levels at One Raffles Quay.  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. bought a 50% stake in a Singapore office tower in a deal valuing the property at S$1.7 billion ($1.3 billion). More may follow suit, including Indonesian upstarts Gojek and Traveloka and South Korea’s Coupang, according to analysts from Savills Plc and Knight Frank. And the hype over the region’s tech firms is mounting with Singapore-based  Grab Holdings Inc. set to  list in the U.S. in a deal valuing the startup at $40 billion. “We expect tech firms to remain a key driver of office demand in the near to medium term,” said Tay Huey Ying, head of research and consultancy at JLL Singapore. Read More: Amazon to Take Office Space From Citigroup in SingaporeThe tech invasion has so far had a limited impact on the scene in the financial district, where smartly dressed office workers remain the norm. But in one-north, a business park that’s home to firms like e-commerce giant  Sea Ltd., there are signs of what’s to come if more tech firms set up bases downtown. The area is bustling with mostly younger workers dressed in T-shirts and baseball caps. A similar trend is already playing out in the U.K. Technology and media companies accounted for 40% of office leasing in the City of London last month, the most of any sector, according to Savills. In the past nine years,  banks slashed their London footprint by about six million square feet -- the equivalent of a dozen Gherkin skyscrapers, according to broker  CBRE Group Inc. Easy access to funding for tech firms including startups makes Singapore an appealing destination. And to draw top global talent, the government last November  launched a program providing a two-year visa for tech entrepreneurs and investors. The city-state’s famed low taxes, ease of doing business, political stability and access to talent are also attracting foreign firms, said Mark Addy, a partner at KPMG in Singapore. Rents in Singapore are showing signs of a recovery after slumping during the pandemic-induced recession. The office rental index climbed 3.3% in the first three months, the first gain in seven quarters, according to Urban Redevelopment Authority data. A two-month lockdown contributed to an 8.5% drop in 2020. Singapore is among the priciest office rental markets Source: Jones Lang LaSalle Note: Tracks occupancy costs per square foot per year standardized based on net leasable area, as of November 2020 Led by demand from tech firms, rents are likely to bottom out this year before recovering in 2022, according to Calvin Yeo, head of corporate real estate at Knight Frank. Lower office supply may also boost rents. There is limited gross new stock coming in from 2021 to 2023 and some older buildings are being taken down or slated for redevelopment, said a spokesperson for  CapitaLand Integrated Commercial Trust, which owns six office buildings in the financial district. Office supply will fall even after most of these redevelopments finish, and so rents should improve over time, the spokesperson said. That bodes well for investors like  Blackstone, which is  looking to invest in more Singapore properties to capitalize on rising demand from the tech sector. Developers aren’t panicking, either. Banks have been adjusting their footprints since the 2008 financial crisis, and as long as Singapore remains a viable business destination there will be demand for offices, the spokesperson for CapitaLand Integrated Commercial Trust said. And while brick-and-mortar banking may be in retreat, fintech is a booming corner of the industry. Singapore’s major banks have piled billions of dollars in the past decade into improving financial technology and digitization while shrinking their physical branches. The financial sector is expected to add about  6,500 jobs this year—many in tech roles—according to the Monetary Authority of Singapore. A boom in private banking is also likely to keep banks in the city center, with firms like Nomura Holdings Inc. seeking to capitalize on  Singapore’s growing prominence as a wealth hub. Beijing’s tightening grip on Hong Kong also strengthens Singapore’s appeal for lenders. “Singapore in contrast to the political unrest in Hong Kong is an oasis of calm,” said Justin Tang, head of Asian research at United First Partners. Banks will just need to share their playground. “The pandemic has accelerated the proliferation of technology into our everyday lives,” Tang said. “The rise of technology firms is inexorable.”  — With assistance by Jack Sidders, Shawna Kwan, and Chanyaporn Chanjaroen