U.S. equity futures advanced on Friday after solid economic data and President Joe Biden’s federal spending plans spurred a Wall Street rally in cyclical shares. Treasury yields and the dollar were steady. The Stoxx Europe 600 index was on track for a second week of gains, led by insurers after The U.K.’s financial regulator provided clarity on new measures aimed at bolstering competition. Contracts on all three major U.S. indexes signaled gains when trading opens. Earlier, industrial and financial equities fueled a modest overall increase in the S&P 500 while tech-heavy Nasdaq 100 slipped. U.S. data included a drop in jobless claims to a fresh pandemic low. Biden is reportedly set to unveil a budget that would take federal spending to $6 trillion in the coming fiscal year. Investors will watch data on personal spending and the Federal Reserve’s preferred inflation measure later Thursday for further clues on the outlook for prices. The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield hovered around 1.62% amid growth optimism and concerns of more debt supply to fund spending. The yen fell as Japan recommended extending a state of emergency that includes Tokyo to curb infections. China signaled the yuan’s recent appreciation is too rapid, with a weaker-than-expected reference rate. Global stocks are set to climb for a fourth month, supported by the economic rebound from Covid-19. Comments from Federal Reserve officials have helped temper fears that inflation could spark a faster-than-expected reduction in stimulus. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said she sees the burst in prices as temporary, though likely to last through the end of 2021. “Between now and year end, we see a little more room for stocks to move up from where they are today and the highs they already achieved earlier this year,” Lori Calvasina, head of U.S. equity strategy at RBC Capital Markets LLC, wrote in a note. “But we don’t think that the path to get there will be smooth and think a short-term pullback before the year is up remains likely.” Elsewhere, oil was steady around a two-year peak but gold retreated. Bitcoin slipped further below the $40,000 level. Copper and iron ore gained as optimism about the U.S. spending plan offset concern about China’s efforts to curb price increases. The Turkish lira sank to a record low amid concern that monetary policy remains too loose to contain accelerating inflation. For more market commentary, see the MLIV blog. These are some of the main moves in markets: — With assistance by Kyoungwha Kim, Joanna Ossinger, and Sunil Jagtiani