Amazon.com Inc.’s agreement to buy Hollywood’s iconic Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer film studio for $8.45 billion is a clear sign that the tech giant is prepared to throw some very serious money at its streaming ambitions. MGM, whose famous franchises include Rocky and James Bond, has an enormous back catalogue of 4,000 films and 17,000 television shows, which could be used to bolster Amazon’s Prime Video. That video service, bundled with Prime delivery, is second only to Netflix in subscriber numbers. But Prime Video has struggled to match its larger rival both in terms of depth of content and  original hits. What next? The deal is a “clear demonstration of content’s growing value in a streaming land-grab,” Bloomberg Intelligence analyst Geetha Ranganathan  said. It “may force other media and tech companies to seek out the few smaller studios that remain.” Viewers’ demand for original programming by streaming service Source: Parrot Analytics  Enjoying Bloomberg Wealth? To read more articles based on your personal financial goals, answer these 3 questions that will tailor your reading experience. Big oil executives now know that climate campaigners do have teeth. Inside of 24 hours, a tiny activist firm  took at least two board seats at U.S. giant Exxon Mobil Corp. on a pledge to push the company to diversify and tackle climate change. At Chevron Corp., shareholders backed a proposal to force the company to  reduce pollution by its customers. On the other side of the Atlantic, Royal Dutch Shell Plc was ordered by a  Dutch court to slash its emissions harder and faster than planned. Key to the shakeup at Exxon and Chevron was the support of big institutional investors — particularly pension funds — where conviction about the necessity of speeding up the energy transition is now mainstream. And that’s putting boardrooms across the fossil fuel industry  on notice. What’s next? As far as some of the big investors are concerned, this is just the start. The Exxon vote “represents a tipping point for companies unprepared for the global energy transition,” CalSTRS, the California state teachers pension fund, said in a statement. “While the ExxonMobil board election is the first of a large U.S. company to focus on the global energy transition, it will not be the last.” Another week, another set of data showing another big jump in property costs. Fresh data showed U.S. house prices soared in March by the most since 2005 with the S&P CoreLogic Case-Shiller index jumping 13% year-on-year. The combination of cheap loans and the post-pandemic desire for more space are fueling a property boom around the globe. Just last week, data out of Sweden showed a  19% jump in prices in April from a year earlier. In the U.S., supply issues are adding to the pressure. The number of homes sold before construction has even started hit the highest level since 2006 as builders struggle to  meet demand amid rising costs. What’s next? For would-be buyers, it’s not a great outlook. “Prices could have even more upside, as demand shows no signs of slowing,” U.S. economy analysts at Citigroup Inc. wrote in a note to clients. “Lumber and labor issues are blunting builders’ ability to meet this demand.” House prices in the U.S. are increasing at the fastest pace since 2005 Source: Bloomberg  Post-pandemic optimism has one of the world’s largest aircraft makers thinking big. Airbus SE said it’s preparing to  ramp up production of its A320 jet airliner beyond pre-pandemic  levels within two years, to a rate of 64 per month. That figure could rise to 70 a month early the following year, with 75 a possibility by 2025, the aircraft manufacturer said in a statement on Thursday. Shares closed up 9.2% on the news. Aviation was one of industries hardest hit by Covid, as international travel bans and lockdowns caused tourism to ground to a halt. Vaccine rollouts and the gradual lifting of restrictions have increased the industry’s confidence in a return to normal. The announcement also buoyed other companies in the space. Shares of jet-engine maker General Electric Co. and Airbus rival Boeing Co. rose rose 7% and 3.9%, respectively, in a sign that investors feel the broader aviation sector is primed for a comeback. What’s next? Concerns over the cost of initiatives to cut the carbon emissions of Airbus’s aircraft, a stated priority for the company, dampen what might otherwise be a bright outlook. “We recognize Airbus called aircraft demand correctly as soon as April 2020, so have our eyes wide open,” said Jefferies analyst Sandy Morris, noting that “much may yet unfold in terms of the need to reduce emissions, hence what the airline industry may need to plan for when rebuilding its balance sheet.” Shares prices of aircraft makers are rebounding from Covid-era lows Source: Bloomberg data  Are daytraders ready to turn their attention to fake meat? Jim Cramer seems to think so. The “Mad Money” host named the Beyond Meat Inc. as a  potential target for retail traders who are members of of Reddit’s WallStreetBets community, causing the stock to rise 13% on Thursday. If such momentum continues, the alternative-meat maker would join so-called memestocks such as GameStop Corp. and AMC Entertainment Holdings Inc., companies whose share prices were boosted thanks to Reddit-inspired rallies earlier this year. Movie theatre chain AMC, which has become a poster child for retail traders using Twitter and Reddit to squeeze short-sellers, has  surged 120% so far this week. Beyond Meat is also making news because of a new product launch. The company introduced its first-ever value six-pack of its Beyond Burger in Canada, which will be available at major grocery stores in the frozen section. What’s next? Focus on the fundamentals more than any Reddit hype, said Morningstar analyst Rebecca Scheuneman. Efforts to boost capacity mean that the company might finally be able to keep up with increasing demand for its products. The fact that it is a trendy consumer-facing brand doesn’t hurt, Scheuneman said. “It’s a product that all consumers can relate to, so it should do well with retail investors.” — With assistance by Lucas Shaw, and Kevin Crowley