The morning of Election Day in Pittsburgh, a driver hollered out the window at mayoral candidate Ed Gainey as he walked out of a Starbucks in Squirrel Hill. “That’s right,” Gainey yelled back. “This city is ready for change! It starts today!” That evening, Gainey won the Democratic primary race, besting the current mayor, Bill Peduto, by roughly 3,800 votes. Barring a successful Republican challenge in the general election this fall, Gainey will become mayor. He’s already presumed the winner because Pittsburgh hasn’t elected a Republican mayor since 1933. The city has also never elected a Black mayor, which would make Gainey its first. Pittsburgh is one of the last and largest cities in the Midwest U.S. to finally have one: Cleveland, Cincinnati, and Columbus, Ohio; Buffalo, New York; Detroit, Michigan; and Milwaukee, Wisconsin all have had one. Gary, Indiana, elected one of the first in the nation’s history. Indianapolis is perhaps the largest city left in the region to go without one. A Black mayor in any Midwest city is a big deal, particularly because this region is the most racially segregated, and produces the worst life outcomes for African Americans. Gainey’s victory in Pittsburgh is notable because the city ranked among the lowest in several key quality of life categories in a recent analysis. And with an African American population of just 22.8%, Pittsburgh also has one of the smallest Black populations in the region. Black candidates have run for mayor in Pittsburgh before, though not many. Should Gainey now officially win the mayor’s seat in November, he joins a growing wave of U.S. cities that have recently elected or appointed their first Black mayors including Kim Janey in Boston; Ella Jones, in Ferguson, Missouri; and  Steven Reed in Montgomery, Alabama. In his campaign, Gainey, currently a state legislator, organized a campaign that centered on unifying the city. He challenged Mayor Peduto on the promotion of Pittsburgh’s “Most Livable City” labels, and accused him of excessive concessions to large corporate tech forces such as  Uber and  Amazon. While the Pittsburgh police were resorting to  aggressive tactics against demonstrators (and  journalists) last summer, during the  protests against police violence, Gainey marched with the people and sponsored legislation to reign in police terror. Gainey also made a bully pulpit out of  a searing report commissioned by Peduto’s office in 2019 showing that Black residents — and Black women especially — fared worse in the city than Black people in just about every other city in the U.S. Oftentimes in cities with minority Black populations, Black mayoral candidates lose because several Black candidates split support votes. It’s the reason why St. Louis changed its voting system to “approval voting,” after which the city  elected its first Black woman as mayor in April. But for the incumbent Peduto in Pittsburgh, part of why he lost may have been because several white candidates ate away at some of Peduto’s votes. His challenger Tony Moreno, a former police officer, won roughly 7,300 votes, which is almost twice the margin of votes between Peduto and Gainey. The bulk of Moreno’s votes came from Pittsburgh’s Mon Valley neighborhoods, which skew whiter than most other neighborhoods. But Gainey also garnered votes in Pittsburgh’s eastern neighborhoods that historically have been considered Peduto’s strongholds. To gain ground in these areas, he assembled a diverse coalition of supporters that included grassroots racial justice forces, such as 1Hood Power and One Pa, alongside critical labor unions, such as the local Service Employees International Union, and national political organizations, such as the Center for Popular Democracy Action and The Collective PAC. He won the coveted endorsement of the Allegheny County Democratic Committee along with the editorial board of the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, which endorsed the Republican Donald Trump in his re-election bid. Below is CityLab’s interview with Gainey from January, where he spells out his hopes and vision for the city. It has been edited for length and clarity. CityLab: You picked arguably one of the most difficult times of the modern era to be a mayor of any city, given the pandemic’s devastating effect on public health and city finances, elevated tension around police violence, and political division. Why would anyone want to be a mayor right now? Gainey: They're all significant issues, but at the same time, you can reimagine what you want your city to be. You know Covid has changed the game. Everything has to change whether we're talking about the economy, or, number one, how we get rid of Covid, or education, or making sure that broadband is all throughout the region. We have opportunities to reimagine a whole new city just based on the economic condition that we're in. If we weren't in this position, then we couldn't talk about change. Change is going to come and change is here. I think there's a lot we can do, and this won’t be easy, but we have opportunities to leverage some things and actually transition into a situation where we're better off. Because change is forced upon us [due to the pandemic], it forces us to think outside the box on how we lift everybody up, because right now, everybody — I don't care who you are — is impacted by Covid-19. Was there a moment or a trigger that made you decide to run for mayor? I've been in Pittsburgh my whole life. I think we can unify this city and I just haven't seen it. For a long time we’ve had conversations about how this is going to be the number one subject, how we’ll be more connected to neighborhoods and bring them together, and be less segregated. You hear this conversation over and over again, and it sounds so good. But then you don't see anything change. You have to have someone who comes from a diverse background and understands that this is our city that we love, and that we want to see that city grow. If you feel you're that person then run for mayor. And at that moment, that's when I decided it's time for me to run for mayor. You have to have somebody that's about unification, not separation. I can do that. I've done it my whole career. Like many first Black mayors before you, you’ll be inheriting a city that is suffering from population loss, which means revenue loss, especially with the economic fallout from pandemic-related closures and postponements. Are you concerned about succeeding in that environment? No. I think all the cities have to worry about that. We are all going to have to depend on [stimulus] that comes in from D.C. It’s about putting the right financial team around you. The one thing that no one talked about during Covid-19 is how neighbors were helping neighbors, making sure they got food and supplies. The community pulls together in times of struggle. But that's all set up by who the leader is. Let’s talk about your vision for the city. My vision for Pittsburgh is a unified Pittsburgh, bringing a unified message to Pittsburgh and really living up to the model of it being America's most livable city. But in order to accomplish that, we have to be a city where everybody is doing well, that we're not leaving any communities out. Neighborhoods that have been forgotten and have not been heard have to have an opportunity to be heard. Neighborhoods where people were forced out due to housing prices being spiked up so they can't afford the rent and can’t stay in the communities in which they grew up, we have to address that. We have to talk about police-community relations in a way that brings unification, and move away from a police force that has adopted military-style tactics, supports community-oriented police to the point where police are not outside of the community. This is not to bash police because I have children that I would leave with the police and know that they will be whole. However, there are some things that we have to address. I don't believe that the police need to be on every call unless they have suitable personnel that can help in certain situations. I think that's been identified throughout America and particularly in Pittsburgh on why that's needed. Also, everybody regardless of where they live wants good neighborhoods and clean safe streets. We have to talk about overgrown weeds and mass demolitions in certain neighborhoods, how to manage that and rebuild communities by working with communities, not telling them what they need. “The ones that need to go shall go. And the ones that want to uplift society and stand for what is right, they'll stand." We're also talking about quality education. The mayor is not in charge of the schools, nor do I want to be. I believe that we should have a democratically elected school board, but I believe we should have a healthy relationship with the superintendent, one in which we can conversate about how the city can partner with them and compliment them in a way that makes the city better. And then lastly, to get rid of these health disparities between Black and white people, discussing how to deal with Covid-19 in a way that not just talks about vulnerable communities, but about how we empower them. So those are the things that I believe unify cities, starting with health, health care, quality education, police-community relations, and affordable housing. Those are the things that make people feel welcome to a city. And in order for Pittsburgh to live up to being America's most livable city, we have to make people feel welcome. You said you’d leave your children with police officers, which is a pretty strong statement given  the current  tensions around police violence towards Black people. How will you get the police department to earn Black residents’ trust?Look at the legislation that I sponsored and the legislation I introduced with [state Rep. ] Summer Lee that talks about police use-of-force, my advocacy in regards to when the police have done wrong, and me speaking up and being outspoken, letting my community know that this is not good. I take the same oath they take, in regards to upholding the law. We can't have them doing things that have a community feeling like they're less worthy or undeserving, or that they're targets. I've been pulled over numerous times, you know? So, I want to make it clear that we're working on doing what's necessary to change police culture. But at the same we do have good officers. We've got officers that I went to school with that are good. We have officers that I've worked with throughout my career that's good. Do they know where I stand? Absolutely. I've never shied away about where I stand. When police officers are wrong, they're wrong, and we have to make that statement. But do I believe that we have some great police officers? Absolutely. I would never put everybody in one bag. But the ones that need to go shall go. And the ones that want to uplift society and stand for what is right, they'll stand. What have you learned in your time as a state legislator about how the state can and can’t help the city — especially with the intensifying political cleavage between Republicans and Democrats?It comes down to relationships: your relationship with the governor, your ability to have conversations with the governor about the priorities of your region. It's about your priorities for Pittsburgh, and being able to talk to them about why it's a priority, what we have to do, and how we can get it accomplished. You have to build trust through communication to talk about what it is that you want and what you need. Because it's just like anything else. Business is based on relationships. If those relationships don’t exist then it is difficult to get what you need. I'm dealing with it now. This is something that I've been prepared for, because of the time that I've spent in the legislature. So that situation is nothing new. You work with those that want to work with you, and those who are really are into the well-being, the healthy aspects of a society, you can work with them. Now there are different angles where it can get nasty. But you still have to work through what you can work through. I don't have a magic wand that says, once I get elected, your problems will go away, we're going to solve this overnight. No, I'm going to be honest with my constituents. These are hard times, and in hard times we have to have hard conversations. We already know exactly what the problem is, what the environment is, what the temperature is, but you still have to have these conversations to see who you can work with. There will be some Republicans that we can work with, because they're suffering from the same thing our community is suffering from. For those that want to see how we can work together to improve from an economy standpoint, from an education standpoint, from a housing standpoint, those are the ones that you want to work with. Because those are the ones that even in their own Republican districts, they have to deal with some of the same things. They have to deal with the drug epidemic. We can work with them on that. There are certain things that can bring people together that you can have conversations about, but you have to have the conversations.