Welcome to Next Africa, a weekly newsletter of where the continent stands now — and where it's going next. When Muhammadu Buhari came to power in Nigeria in 2015, he pledged to end the insecurity that plagued the country’s northeast as a result of a jihadist rebellion by Boko Haram. Six years later, the insurgency is still going on and rampant  criminality also made large parts of the northwest too dangerous to travel. In the southeast, where the Biafran civil war was fought from 1967 to 1970, new unrest may be brewing. Africa’s most populous nation is in  turmoil and Buhari’s government is ill-equipped to deal with it. Years of economic malaise and security forces that do little to enforce the law have driven up crime rates, leaving many of Nigeria’s 200 million citizens vulnerable. With unemployment at 33% and high inflation, “there are very few legitimate economic opportunities, people are going to turn to crime,” said Adedayo Ademuwagun, a Lagos-based analyst at political risk firm Songhai Advisory. The role of security forces in Nigeria “is mainly to ensure that the political regime is protected,” he said. Buhari doesn’t seem to have the answers. Just this year, some 700 students have been kidnapped for ransom in the northwest. Jihadist attacks continue in the northeast, herders and pastoralists are clashing in the central belt and the waters of the Gulf of Guinea are among the world’s most dangerous because of piracy. Even parts of the oil-rich southwest are restless. While the poor  economic conditions and deteriorating insecurity are intertwined, the president may find that the financial well-being of his country is dependent on the safety of his citizens. Debt Burden | Glencore should  renegotiate an oil-for-cash loan to help Chad make its debt sustainable, according to World Bank President David Malpass. His comments came after President Emmanuel Macron asked rich countries to join France in committing to  reallocate some of their International Monetary Fund special drawing rights to Africa to help ease the continent’s indebtedness. Earlier, Akinwumi Adesina, head of the African Development Bank, said IMF resources should be used to  buy out holders of African bonds. Brewer Deal | Heineken, the world’s second-largest brewer, is in talks about a  takeover of wine and spirits maker Distell. The South African company produces Klipdrift brandy, Nederburg wine, Amarula cream liqueur, Savanna cider and Bain’s Cape Mountain Whisky. An acquisition would be Heineken’s most significant transaction since 2018, when it formed a partnership with China Resources Beer, maker of the Asian country’s best-selling beer. Virus Impact | After decades of progress in the continent’s fight against poverty, Covid-19 plunged 30 million Africans into “ extreme poverty” last year. As many as 39 million more could follow in 2021 amid a slow recovery because of low inoculation rates. As of last week, only 22.4 million shots have been administered on a continent with 1.3 billion people. The African Union’s health agency said countries should use more than one  type of shot to complete people’s vaccine cycles if needed, as several states are facing shortages. Steam Power | Kenya Electricity Generating Co., a  geothermal pioneer, plans to raise $1.95 billion to build new, and upgrade existing plants to almost double its power output from the renewable fuel. Under the plan, KenGen intends to build four new 140-megawatt steam-power plants. Meanwhile, two Maersk  vessels made maiden calls at Kenya’s new Indian Ocean port in Lamu, edging the nation closer to fulfilling its ambition of becoming the main shipping hub on the East African coast. Betting on Europe | One of Africa’s wealth funds rode the wave of U.S. technology stocks to a banner 2020. Now, it’s betting Europe will play catch-up. The Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority, fresh off a  51% surge in assets that took the fund above $2 billion, is boosting its exposure to European stocks and will add some Japanese equities, according to Chief Executive Officer Uche Orji. The Goldman Sachs alumnus sees opportunity as Europe begins to open up from Covid-19 lockdowns. Data Watch South African inflation is set to top the midpoint of the central bank target Source: Statistics South Africa, South African Reserve Bank  Coming Up Vodacom has developed Africa’s first  super-app with help from China’s Alibaba, allowing subscribers a broad range of services including taking out loans, shopping online and making mobile payments. The VodaPay app is comparable to Tencent’s WeChat that’s used by more than a billion people. It will be available to South African customers in coming weeks, and will help Vodacom expand financial and e-commerce services in its home market in the absence of new high-speed broadband spectrum. Mobile operators in Africa have invested heavily in financial technology to fill a gap left by a lack of physical banking infrastructure. Vodacom’s Johannesburg rival, MTN, is looking to carve out and possibly list its fintech business, while Airtel Africa is considering similar options. — With assistance by Anthony Osae-Brown