Backed by the U.S., European Union leaders moved to impose new sanctions on Belarus over the forced landing of a Ryanair Holdings Plc jet and the arrest of a dissident journalist. “This is an attack on democracy, this is an attack on freedom of expression and this is an attack on European sovereignty,” Ursula von der Leyen, head of the European Commission, told reporters. She mentioned additional sanctions “on individuals that are involved in the hijacking but this time also on businesses and entities that are financing this regime.” Calling the incident “a direct affront to international norms,” U.S. President Joe Biden welcomed the EU decision. In a statement, he said he’s asked advisers “to develop appropriate options to hold accountable those responsible.” National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan spoke by phone with exiled Belarusian opposition leader Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya Monday. On the first of two days of summit talks in Brussels, EU leaders on Monday asked the European Commission to propose Belarusian officials who should be added to an existing blacklist and told their ministers to come up with broader measures to target businesses and entire sectors of the country’s economy. READ MORE: Belarus Targets Critics in the Streets and Skies: QuickTake European leaders also vowed to ban Belavia Belarusian Airlines from entering EU airspace and asked EU-based carriers to avoid flying over Belarus. Those moves “will have very noticeable consequences, not only for the airlines but also for the country,” German Economy Minister Peter Altmaier said late Monday in an interview with Bild newspaper. “This is the first step this evening.” European sanctions could take a month or more to take effect, however, while the U.S. administration didn’t indicate when it might take action. Belarusian strongman Alexander Lukashenko has already withstood years of Western sanctions thanks to support from Russia and China, deepening a crackdown that began after anti-government protests swept the country last summer. LISTEN: White House correspondent Josh Wingrove discusses the U.S. response with Edward Baxter on Bloomberg Radio. The measures followed the forced landing of a Ryanair jet in Minsk and the arrest of 26-year-old Raman Pratasevich who was on board the flight from Athens to Vilnius. The EU called on President Lukashenko to release the journalist and on the International Civil Aviation Organization to investigate the incident. Read More: Russia Backs Belarus Ally Over Ryanair Jet Seizure as West Fumes “We do not tolerate that people try to play Russian roulette with the lives of innocent civilians,” said Charles Michel, who chaired the summit. Pratasevich appeared in a brief video released by Belarusian authorities Monday night. Speaking with little expression, he said he was being treated “appropriately,” is feeling well and has confessed to charges of fomenting mass unrest. His allies said he appeared to have been beaten, but there were no clear signs of injuries. The regime's propaganda channels posted a video of arrested Raman Pratasevich, saying that he is treated lawfully in the Minsk Detention Center №1. This is how Raman looks under physical and moral pressure. I demand the immediate release of Raman and all political prisoners. pic.twitter.com/zdolsbp6m5 Accused of torturing prisoners, Belarusian authorities have regularly released such “confession” videos from detainees in the months since protests began last summer. The EU’s tougher stance against Belarus coincided with a scheduled discussion on its close ally Russia. Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda called for measures to limit Russia’s access to financial markets and international payment systems. WATCH: IATA Director General Willie Walsh discusses the response of the aviation industry after the forced landing of a Ryanair Holdings. (Source: Bloomberg) Von der Leyen said that Russia has tried to weaken the EU and undermine member states through “sabotage, assassinations, divide-and-rule tactics, cyber-attacks, disinformation campaigns.” “It is getting worse,” she said. The EU leaders asked the commission to set out options for pushing back against Putin when they meet next month. Russia has backed Belarus’s handing of the situation. Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakaharova Tuesday denounced the western reaction as “hysterics,” RIA Novosti reported. In a public show of support, President Vladimir Putin is reportedly to meet Lukashenko later this week, for the third time this year. Lithuanian Defense Minister Arvydas Anusauskas said Belarus had scrambled a jet Sunday while the Ryanair pilot was still deliberating whether to divert or not. The fighter was up in the air for 13 minutes and remained about 25 miles (40 kilometers) from the passenger plane. The minister said that the same fighter then escorted the plane onward from Minsk to Vilnius. The leaders discussed the crisis, as well as relations with Russia, without their mobile phones and other electronic devices in an effort to ensure their talks remained confidential. The EU has already imposed sanctions on dozens of individuals and seven entities, including Lukashenko and other senior government officials, and was already working on a new round of measures to present next month. In light of this weekend’s incident and the mandate provided by EU leaders, those new restrictive measures are likely to now be tougher. In addition to adding more people and entities to the list, the bloc could set out action targeting the financial and economic interests of the regime, including businesses and oligarchs. The proposals will be prepared by the EU’s foreign affairs arm before they go back to member states for approval. European governments could struggle to open direct communication channels with Minsk. Lukashenko has in the past year refused to take calls from EU leaders, according to two people familiar with the matter. NATO ambassadors will also discuss the incident on Tuesday. — With assistance by Aliaksandr Kudrytski, Viktoria Dendrinou, Sotiris Nikas, Arne Delfs, Ania Nussbaum, and Nikos Chrysoloras