Hong Kong may donate Covid-19 vaccines to countries more in need of them as local demand for Pfizer Inc.-BioNTech SE shots ebbs. Taiwan closed places of worship and limited restaurants to take-out only across the island after reporting hundreds of new cases Wednesday. In Europe, France is weighing whether to impose additional restrictions at its border with Britain to fend off the variant first identified in India. The British government warned people to avoid traveling to hot spots in England where the variant is spreading. A White House official said that half of American adults will be fully vaccinated this week, and the nation’s top airlines are seeing a rebound in travel. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Type CVID <GO> on the terminal for global data on cases and deaths. Taiwan will close places of worship across the island and limit restaurants to take-out only, the latest efforts to contain the first real outbreak there. There is also a moratorium on wedding banquets and public memorial ceremonies for funerals. Violations of the mask mandate will be punishable by fine. The number of confirmed local covid cases in Taiwan has more than quadrupled in the past two weeks. Officials confirmed 302 new cases Wednesday, bringing the overall total to 4,918. South Korea, in its latest attempt to spur more people to get vaccinated, announced it will exempt those who’ve been inoculated from wearing masks when outdoors. Health authorities did not specify how those who had a jab would be identified when the exemption takes effect in July. The move comes nearly two weeks after the U.S. Centers for Disease Control said that fully vaccinated people don’t have to wear their masks in most settings, including indoors or in large groups. Melbourne officials declined to declare a snap lockdown in the city Wednesday, even as the cluster of cases there grew to 15, passing the number that triggered the last short-notice restrictions in February. Australia’s second-biggest city issued a mask mandate and restricted gatherings earlier this week. Victoria state Acting Premier James Merlino didn’t rule out further restrictions, saying there was concern “about the number and also about the kind of exposure sites” involved in the small but growing cluster. Among those who’ve now tested positive, some had attended a football match over the weekend and visited a university and the regional city of Bendigo, about 150 kilometers (93 miles) north of Melbourne. Australia will provide Vietnam with a A$40 million ($31 million) grant for Covid-19 vaccine purchases, according to a post on Vietnam’s government website. Vietnam has also asked for help obtaining AstraZeneca Plc Covid-19 vaccines manufactured in Australia. Vietnamese Premier Pham Minh Chinh has called on the international community to help fund the nation’s vaccine purchases amid a record surge in domestic virus cases. Only 1% of the population has had at least one shot; of those, about 3% have received a second dose. Vietnam on Tuesday reported a single-day record of 444 new Covid-19 domestic cases, most in northern provinces. The Tokyo Metropolitan Government is considering asking the central government to extend a coronavirus state of emergency in the capital that’s due to expire May 31, public broadcaster NHK reported, without saying where it got the information. Infections are dropping but officials are concerned about a resurgence if the emergency is lifted too soon, NHK said. People get vaccinated at Fenway Park in Boston, in Jan. 2021. Photographer: Joseph Prezioso/AFP/Getty Images Maine Governor Janet Mills said 70% of state residents age 12 and older have received one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine. Five other states -- Vermont, Hawaii, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Connecticut -- have also reached that milestone, she said in a statement, citing CDC data. British Columbia, whose economy weathered the pandemic better than much of Canada, said it foresees a return to “normal life” as it announced plans to lift most restrictions by the fall. The western province on Tuesday released a four-stage plan that could see offices fully reopened, sporting events and concerts allowed, and constraints on travel lifted by September. The reopening will be based on data, and dates and rules could change depending on new outbreaks. The rebound in U.S. travel is gaining steam, according to the country’s three biggest airlines. The pace of the recovery has been faster than expected, Delta Air Lines Inc. President Glen Hauenstein said Tuesday. United Airlines Holdings Inc. predicted it would turn a profit before certain items next quarter, while American Airlines Group Inc. said corporate trips and long overseas flights -- the worst-hit segments during the pandemic -- are poised for improvement. Health workers take care of a Covid-19 patient at a private hospital in Montevideo, Uruguay on April 20. Photographer: Pablo Porciuncula/AFP/Getty Images Public approval of Uruguay President Luis Lacalle Pou’s handling of the pandemic fell to 62% in May from 72% in February, pollster Opcion Consultores found. Disapproval of Lacalle Pou’s handling of the pandemic rose to 15% from 10%. Opcion interviewed 824 people via mobile phone May 13-20 with a margin of error of plus or minus 3.5%. Uruguay led the world in Covid-19 deaths per capita in the last week even with one of Latin America’s most successful vaccination programs. Harvard students will return to the classroom full time for the fall semester and campus housing will go back to its usual density after more than a year of remote learning. The university in Cambridge, Massachusetts, is expecting the largest entering class in its history, Harvard said Tuesday in a statement on its website. All enrolled students, who must be vaccinated to attend, can expect full campus access, which includes libraries, archives, museums and research facilities. Hong Kong may donate Covid-19 vaccines to countries more in need of them via channels such as the World Health Organization’s Covax initiative as local demand for Pfizer-BioNTech shots “has gradually become sluggish recently,” according to a government statement late Tuesday. Of the approximately 2 million BioNTech doses which have been delivered to Hong Kong, the city has 840,000 unused doses in storage that will expire in mid-August; it has procured 7.5 million doses in total. People line up outside a vaccination center administering the Pfizer vaccine in Hong Kong, on April 26. Photographer: Chan Long Hei/Bloomberg As Russia struggles to get its population to take the coronavirus vaccines heralded by President Vladimir Putin, the far east region of Yakutia is passing the strictest inoculation requirements yet. All companies, both public-sector and private, are required to organize shots for their workers, according to a decree by the region’s chief medical authority. Employers that fail to do so may face fines, Yakutia President Aisen Nikolaev’s press service said separately. The target is to cover at least 70% of all adults by July. New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said the city will bring mobile vaccination units to beaches and parks starting during the Memorial Day weekend and lasting through the summer, including the Rockaways, Coney Island, Central Park and Governors Island. De Blasio said that starting Tuesday there will be a vaccination site in front of Madison Square Garden, which will be offering people getting the shot a chance to win tickets to the next New York Knicks playoff game. WATCH: Johns Hopkins says it’s hard to see Covid spiraling out of control in the U.S. Source: Bloomberg The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said that as of April 30 there were 10,262 cases of vaccinated people who were later infected with Covid-19 out of approximately 101 million people who are fully inoculated. A small number of so-called breakthrough infections after full vaccination are to be expected because no vaccines are 100% effective. The CDC notes the reported cases are likely a substantial undercount since many people, especially those who are asymptomatic or have only mild illness, might not seek testing. In May, health officials shifted to investigating only cases in which patients were hospitalized or died, drawing concern from some scientists who say that may mean missing needed data. WATCH: White House Covid-19 adviser Andy Slavitt says half of American adults will be fully vaccinated as of Tuesday. (Source: Bloomberg) The British government warned people to avoid traveling to hot spots in England where the variant first identified in India is spreading, as officials in France consider further curbs on passengers arriving from the U.K. The guidance applies to eight areas including Hounslow in west London, the central England city of Leicester and the northwest towns of Blackburn and Bolton. People there should not meet up indoors or travel outside their districts, the government said. WATCH: There’s a shakeup at the top of Bloomberg’s Covid-19 Resilience Ranking. (Source: Quicktake) Ireland is set to announce this week that it will remove the requirement for travelers arriving from the U.K. to self quarantine for 14 days, the Daily Telegraph newspaper reported, even amid increasing concern about the spread of the variant first identified in India. Authorities are watching the variant’s spread in the U.K. “very carefully,” Prime Minister Micheal Martin told reporters in Brussels. Irish officials declined to comment on the Telegraph report. Moderna Inc.’s vaccine was highly effective in 12- to 17-year-olds in a large study, paving the way for regulatory submissions around the world by early June. In a news release, the company said its vaccine was between 93% and 100% effective in preventing symptomatic Covid in teenagers, depending on whether very mild cases are included in the count. The study met its primary goal of showing that immune responses to the vaccine were as good as those produced in adults, and no significant safety concerns were observed, according to the company. WATCH: Moderna says its vaccine “was highly effective at preventing Covid-19 in adolescents” in a phase 2/3 study. Dave Wilson reports. (Source: Bloomberg) — With assistance by Vivek Shankar, Yuliya Fedorinova, Shelly Banjo, Elaine Chen, Mai Ngoc Chau, Natalie Lung, Cindy Wang, Ken Parks, Justin Bachman, and John Boudreau