Data from the U.S., Israel, Qatar and Malta suggest messenger RNA vaccines developed by Moderna Inc. and the Pfizer Inc.-BioNTech SE partnership are more effective in quelling transmission of the virus. The Philippines ordered inoculation centers only to disclose their vaccine type to recipients on-site to overcome “brand preference” after long lines formed when Pfizer’s jab was launched in the capital this week. Meanwhile, Vietnam may cut the quarantine for vaccinated travelers arriving at airports to seven from 21 days. Sniffer dogs may join the struggle against the virus after a French study found they’re able to detect Covid-19 in humans. Fully vaccinated Amazon.com Inc. frontline employees in the U.S. won’t have to wear masks starting next week, unless required by state or local regulations. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Type CVID <GO> on the terminal for global data on cases and deaths. The Philippine Interior Department ordered local governments not to announce available vaccine brands at vaccination centers, saying there’s a “need to educate the people in order to overcome brand preference.” Vaccine recipients will only be informed of the brand on-site, and can refuse to inoculated. The order is also to prevent crowding, after long queues formed at the Pfizer vaccine rollout in the capital earlier this week. The Southeast Asian nation has administered nearly 3.3 million shots, with the pace of vaccinations improving from last week, as it targets herd immunity this year to fight one of the region’s worst Covid-19 outbreaks. Vietnam may cut the quarantine for vaccinated travelers arriving at the country’s airports to seven from 21 days. Travelers “who are seen as safe only need seven-day quarantines and their health will be monitored after leaving the quarantine facilities,” Deputy Premier Vu Duc Dam said in an instruction, according to a post on the health ministry’s website, referring to fully-inoculated visitors. New guidance is expected to be issued by the ministry in a week. Vietnam increased mandatory quarantines for travelers arriving in the country to 21 days from 14 days earlier this month following a flareup in domestic infections. Singapore’s Ministry of Health issued an order to Facebook Inc., Twitter Inc. and SPH Magazines requiring corrections to be made over what it says are online falsehoods that imply a new coronavirus variant had originated in the country. “There is no new ‘Singapore’ variant of Covid-19,” the ministry said in a statement. “Neither is there evidence of any Covid-19 variant that is ‘extremely dangerous for kids’. The strain that is prevalent in many of the Covid-19 cases detected in Singapore in recent weeks is the B.1.617.2 variant, which originated from India.” Why the Mutated Coronavirus Variants Are So Worrisome: QuickTake A Japanese health ministry panel is expected to approve the use of AstraZeneca Plc’s Covid vaccine at a meeting scheduled Thursday after trials held in the nation confirmed effectiveness, public broadcaster NHK reported, citing an unidentified person. The broadcaster reported Tuesday that the ministry also plans to approve the use of Moderna Inc.’s Covid vaccine. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has authorized storage of thawed, undiluted Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine in the refrigerator for as long as one month, according to a statement from the regulators. When initially authorized late last year, the shot had to be kept at ultracold temperatures, which limited its use in some areas that didn’t have access to the required storage technology. Previously, the shot could only be kept in a refrigerator for as long as five days. Regulators in Canada have issued a similar clearance. A healthcare worker administers a second dose of the Pfizer mRNA-based vaccine at the University of New Mexico’s Gallup campus on March 23. Photographer: Cate Dingley/Bloomberg Data indicate mRNA vaccines are better at stopping people from becoming contagious, helping reduce onward transmission. Other vaccines, while effective in preventing acute illness or death from Covid, appear not to have this extra perk to the same degree. “This will be an increasing trend as countries start to realize that some vaccines are better than others,” said Nikolai Petrovsky, a professor at the College of Medicine and Public Health at Flinders University in South Australia. While the use of any vaccine “is still better than nothing,” he said, some doses “may have little benefit in preventing spread, even if they reduce the risk of death or severe disease.” ImmunityBio Inc.’s hAd5 T-cell Covid-19 vaccine candidate is being considered as a booster shot in a study of almost 500,000 South African health workers who have received Johnson & Johnson’s inoculation. The health workers, the first people outside of much smaller studies to be vaccinated in South Africa, will need a booster, according to Glenda Gray, the co-lead of the South African studies. “It could be the universal boost that we are looking for,” she said. “Hopefully we will start in a couple of weeks.” Amazon.com Inc.’s fully vaccinated staff in frontline jobs in the U.S. won’t have to wear masks starting on Monday next week, unless mandated by state or local regulations. Workers who are fully vaccinated and have a copy of their vaccine card won’t have to wear face coverings in the company’s warehouses and other logistics depots, Amazon said in a message to employees on Wednesday. Amazon, which employs about 1.3 million people, is the second-largest private sector employer in the U.S. behind Walmart Inc. The online retailer instituted its mask requirement in April 2020. Tom Wolf Photographer: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg Pennsylvania voters approved two ballot measures to curtail a governor’s authority during disaster declarations, a rebuke of Democratic Governor Tom Wolf’s pandemic restrictions. The proposed constitutional amendments, placed on the ballot by the Republican-controlled Legislature, would let the state’s General Assembly end a disaster declaration without the governor’s approval, and shorten such declarations to 21 days from 90 days. Both measures drew about 54% of the vote, according to incomplete and unofficial returns posted Wednesday on the Pennsylvania Secretary of State’s website. The seven-day average Covid-19 positivity rate in New York state dropped to 1.06%, the lowest since Sept. 27, Governor Andrew Cuomo said in a statement Wednesday. It was the 44th straight day of declines. Hospitalizations fell to 1,521, the fewest since Nov. 8. “New York is making tremendous strides in beating back Covid -- our positivity rates are the lowest we’ve seen in months and more than 10 million New Yorkers have received at least one dose of the vaccine,” Cuomo said. Separately, New York Mayor Bill de Blasio said the city would keep the mask mandate in place in municipal offices because there are vaccinated and unvaccinated people working together. He said the three measures tracked closely by the city -- cases, deaths and hospitalizations -- have all dropped below the city’s threshold. The closely watched hospitalization rate that has dropped below 1 per 100,000 residents. Members of the public line up for Covid-19 vaccine in Bolton, U.K., on May 14. Photographer: Anthony Devlin/Bloomberg More than 70% of U.K. adults have received at least one dose of Covid vaccine, the Department of Health and Social Care said, and about 40% of people are fully vaccinated. The country’s health services have administered 57.8 million vaccines as of May 18, an effort that began in December, according to a statement. The U.K. remains on track to offer a first dose to all adults by the end of July, the agency said. A probe by the U.S. Congress into Emergent BioSolutions Inc. found that the contract manufacturer failed to address deficiencies in vaccine production at its facilities despite warnings following a series of inspections in 2020. Emergent, which was tasked with manufacturing the underlying drug substance used in the Johnson & Johnson and AstraZeneca Plc Covid-19 vaccines, has faced production setbacks after conflating the active ingredient used in the two vaccines. The error at its Baltimore plant in late February led it to discard 15 million doses worth of an ingredient used in the J&J shot, and has delayed the vaccine maker’s ability to supply the U.S. and world. Switzerland has earmarked an additional 50 million francs ($55 million) for Covid-19 treatments and vaccines. The government has already decided to order vaccines for 2022, and intends to extend business with developers Moderna Inc. and the Pfizer Inc.-BioNTech SE partnership beyond that date to guard against emerging variants of the virus. Switzerland also wants to work with businesses and institutions of higher education to ensure that in the event of another pandemic, the country is well placed to develop and manufacture vaccines. Pakistan will reopen the tourism sector and outdoor restaurants to full capacity starting on May 24, according to a statement. Educational institutions in districts with less than 5% Covid-19 positivity rates, as well as outdoor marriage ceremonies with a maximum of 150 people will reopen on June 1. Dogs are able to detect Covid-19 in humans, a new study showed, paving the way for the broader use of sniffing canines in a global effort to contain the pandemic. The dogs’ detection reached 97% sensitivity in the French study, meaning that’s how well the canines could identify positive samples. The sensitivity rating beats that of many 15-minute antigen tests, which tend to be better at ruling out infection than at finding it. Some 440,000 vaccines made by China’s Sinopharm were flown to Serbia, of which 240,000 were paid for and 200,000 were donated by China’s national defense ministry for inoculation of Serbia’s military. — With assistance by Reinie Booysen