President Joe Biden said he ordered the U.S. intelligence community to “redouble” its effort to determine the origin of the coronavirus, including whether it possibly came from a Chinese lab accident. Melbourne will lock down as a cluster of cases continues to grow. Thailand reported a record number of Covid-19 deaths, while Malaysia’s new daily infections rose to a high. Vietnam, also fighting a fresh wave of cases, is allowing some factory workers to sleep on site to avoid production disruptions, while Ho Chi Minh City is closing its hotels and restaurants, according to a local media report. The European Union attacked AstraZeneca Plc’s vaccine supply “failure” and demanded an urgent order for millions more doses in the latest round of a bitter legal dispute over alleged broken promises by the drugmaker. France unveiled extra restrictions for passengers coming from the U.K. to fend off the coronavirus variant first identified in India. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Type CVID <GO> on the terminal for global data on cases and deaths. Malaysian Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin is facing renewed pressure to allow parliament to reconvene, as his move to suspend democracy in January is failing to contain the Covid outbreak amid rising public anger. Malaysians’ vaccine hesitancy is one of the many indicators that the people have lost confidence in the government, said Azalina Othman Said, Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives and member of the ruling United Malays National Organisation. Public mistrust must be handled via public debate through parliament, she wrote on Twitter Thursday. Ho Chi Minh City is closing restaurants, hotels and religious establishments after Vietnam’s commercial hub reported 25 people tied to a religious sect tested positive for the virus, Tuoi Tre newspaper reported. Authorities in the province of Bac Ninh, the nation’s second worst virus-hit region, ordered companies to let workers sleep in factories beginning June 1 to prevent production disruptions. Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh approved the establishment of a fund to facilitate donations to help Vietnam acquire and produce Covid-19 vaccines. The health ministry has estimated it will cost the country about $1.1 billion to acquire 150 millions of doses for 75 million people. About 1% of Vietnam’s population has received at least a first vaccine dose. Hong Kong’s richest tycoon Li Ka-shing, 92, has been fully vaccinated, according to a Facebook post by his charity, the Li Ka Shing Foundation, with a photo of his BioNTech vaccination record. “The antibody index satisfies the doctor,” the foundation said. Vaccines from China’s Sinopharm successfully contained Covid-19, according to a study published in a prestigious U.S. medical journal, the first time detailed findings from a late-stage trial of a Chinese shot have appeared in the scientific literature. The two inactivated vaccines developed by Sinopharm’s vaccine-making unit China National Biotec Group Co. prevented symptomatic infections by 72.8% and 78.1%, largely in-line with what the state-owned drugmaker previously announced. The findings were reported in the May 26 Journal of the American Medical Association. The Taiwanese government will strengthen support measures for industries affected by Covid restrictions, increasing relief loans and speeding up help for the self-employed such as drivers. A person sits inside a mostly empty restaurant in Taipei on May 27. Photographer: Billy H.C. Kwok/Bloomberg The government is being pushed to widen its fiscal support to help the economy cope with business shutdowns and possible job cuts as virus restrictions tighten across the island. Lawmakers are set to approve an almost 50% jump in government spending to NT$630 billion ($22.6 billion) on Monday, with pressure building to increase that further. Melbourne, the Australian city that’s already endured one of the world’s longest and most arduous lockdowns, is heading back into enforced isolation due to another Covid-19 outbreak. The city of 5 million people, along with all other areas of Victoria state, will go into lockdown from midnight for seven days, state Acting Premier James Merlino told reporters in Melbourne on Thursday. The number of cases within the community spread had doubled in the past day to 26, he said. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. WATCH: Victoria is entering a 7-day lockdown due to another Covid-19 outbreak. (Source: Bloomberg) Airport Authority Hong Kong will give away 60,000 air tickets by lucky draw to local residents and airport staff who receive Covid-19 vaccination. Details are being discussed with airlines, with the draw planned to be completed by the end of September. Ohio, meanwhile, announced the first winner of its $1 million Vax-a-Million vaccination incentive prize, the Associated Press reported. China supports “overall examinations” of all early Covid cases that were discovered around the world, according to a statement on the foreign ministry’s website. The probe must be complete, transparent and based on facts and should include “some secret bases and biological labs,” the ministry said, without elaborating. Facebook Inc. will stop taking down posts that claim Covid-19 was man-made or manufactured, according to Politico. “In light of ongoing investigations into the origin of COVID-19 and in consultation with public health experts, we will no longer remove the claim that COVID-19 is man-made from our apps,” a company spokesperson told Politico in an emailed statement. Twitter Inc. and YouTube, part of Alphabet Inc.’s Google, didn’t respond to the publication on whether they are amending policies on the origins of the disease. GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s monoclonal antibody drug sotrovimab won emergency use authorization from the U.S. FDA to treat mild-to-moderate Covid-19 in people 12 and older. Sotrovimab mimics the human body’s immune response and blocks the coronavirus from attaching to and entering cells. It has been shown to help against variants first reported in the U.K., South Africa, Brazil, California, New York and India. The treatment can be administered as a 500 milligram single dose intravenously by health care providers, the FDA said. Potential side effects include anaphylaxis and infusion-related reactions, rash and diarrhea. The drug isn’t approved for use in patients who are hospitalized or need oxygen because of the disease. South Africa’s review of the Sinovac and Sputnik coronavirus vaccines is nearing completion, the South African Health Products Regulatory Authority said. A box containing vials of the Sinovec Covid-19 vaccine. Photographer: Samsul Said/Bloomberg China’s Sinovac Biotech Co. may be able to supply South Africa with as many as 5 million doses of its Covid-19 vaccine, Johannesburg-based newspaper Business Day reported in March. In April, Health Minister Zweli Mkhize directed officials to buy 10 million doses of Russia’s Sputnik V and China’s Sinopharm shots. No applications have been received yet for the Sinopharm inoculation, officials said. New York is raffling off 50 four-year full-tuition scholarships, including room and board, to any public college and university in the state to adolescents who get vaccinated. A healthcare worker administers a Covid-19 vaccine at a vaccination site in New York earlier in May. Photographer: Johnny Milano/Bloomberg Staring Thursday through July 7, teens 12 to 17 years old who get their first vaccine dose will be in a pool to win one of ten scholarships given weekly, Governor Andrew Cuomo announced. The drawing will be held every Wednesday. Only 8.7% of New Yorkers ages 12-17 are vaccinated. Currently only the Pfizer Inc.-BioNTech SE shot is authorized for the age group, though Moderna Inc. said this week it is seeking to have its shot authorized for teens by early June. “The greatest need is the 12-17 year olds,” Cuomo said at a news briefing Wednesday. “They are 5% of the current Covid tests but they are 10% of the positivity rate -- that’s the highest percent of any age group.” The World Health Organization has had informal consultations with member states about the next phase in efforts to find the origins of the coronavirus, and will continue to have those discussions in the coming weeks, Mike Ryan, head of the WHO health emergencies program, said in a speech to the World Health Assembly, the governing body of the Geneva-based agency. “We’re very much welcoming of your suggestions around those inputs for the next phase and around the need for further experts to be able to carry out different studies as needed,” Ryan said. “The Director-General will consider all of that over the coming weeks and we’ll be then able to communicate with you what we believe is the best next step in this journey.” The group of international scientists that traveled to Wuhan, China, where the first Covid cases emerged at the end of 2019, said in a joint report with Chinese counterparts that the pathogen most likely spread from bats to humans via another animal. A lab accident was deemed least likely, though WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus joined the U.S. and other governments in saying the probe didn’t adequately analyze the possibility of a lab leak. Vaccine manufacturers stand to gain as much as $190 billion in sales this year if they hit production targets, with two Chinese companies accounting for at least a quarter of the revenue, according to Airfinity Ltd. estimates. Production constraints and shortfalls will likely bring the final 2021 sales numbers closer to a range that tops out at $115 billion, the research firm said. A employee stacks packed vials of Covishield on the production line at the Serum Institute of India Ltd. plant in Pune in India, earlier in January. Photographer: Dhiraj Singh/Bloomberg France will unveil extra restrictions for passengers coming from the U.K. to fend off the variant first identified in India, government spokesman Gabriel Attal said after a cabinet meeting. France will request mandatory isolation for passengers, according to Attal. — With assistance by Ville Heiskanen