Here’s the latest news from the global pandemic. South Africa, which has the continent’s best health system and worst confirmed coronavirus outbreak by orders of magnitude, has vaccinated fewer than 500,000 health-care workers—lagging behind the likes of Zimbabwe, Angola and Senegal. More than 1.6 million Covid-19 cases have been detected in the country so far, and officially over 55,000 of those diagnosed with the disease have died. Contractual wrangling with drug companies and the emergence of a new variant that appeared resistant to a shot developed by AstraZeneca are among the reasons cited by the authorities for the absence of a comprehensive inoculation campaign. Opposition parties and civil rights groups say government tardiness and ineptitude have played an even bigger role. Now, President Cyril Ramaphosa’s administration finally seems to be getting its act together. Contracts have been signed with Johnson & Johnson and Pfizer to supply enough shots to cover about two-thirds of the nation’s 60 million people, with those over age 60 set to start getting them this week. An electronic registration system has been set up, more than 3,000 vaccination centers have been identified, and health workers have received the requisite training. The urgency of the vaccine rollout can’t be understated. New cases, which have been simmering along since late February, have risen sharply over recent weeks. While the government says the threshold for a third wave of infections has yet to be breached, the signs are worrying, and it’s on high alert. The vaccines look set to be snapped up when they do become available. A survey published last week by a group of academics showed 71% of more than 5,000 people canvassed said they wanted the shots.—Mike Cohen When a family reunion coincided with the resumption of leisure travel from the U.K. after months of lockdown, our intrepid reporter took the plunge. He booked a flight from London Heathrow to New York’s John F. Kennedy airport for May 17, the first day it was legal to fly again.   Read about his experience here. Some big news | We've launched a new section called Odd Lots, an expansion of our popular markets podcast with Bloomberg News Executive Editors Joe Weisenthal and Tracy Alloway. Become a Bloomberg.com subscriber to get access to Odd Lots stories on the latest market crazes, Joe and Tracy's weekly newsletter and more. Coronavirus Daily subscribers get 40% off. Families Dying in Covid’s Carnage in Rural India Citizens say they’re left by the government to fight the pandemic alone. Biden to Send U.S.-Authorized Vaccines Abroad He plans to send additional 20 million doses of U.S. shots by end of June. WEF Cancels Singapore Meeting Amid Pandemic The WEF said its next annual event will take place in the first half of 2022. U.K. Rushes to Vaccinate as Variant Advances It’s trying to contain strain found in India in order to fully reopen on June 21. Spain Wants Rural Migrants to Stay Countryside Covid is changing the landscape of the decline of Spain’s rural population. Know someone else who would like this newsletter? Have them sign up here. Have any questions, concerns, or news tips on Covid-19 news? Get in touch or help us cover the story. Like this newsletter? Subscribe for unlimited access to trusted, data-based journalism in 120 countries around the world and gain expert analysis from exclusive daily newsletters, The Bloomberg Open and The Bloomberg Close.