When the playscape Swing Time popped up in Boston in 2014, visitors started having too much fun. The 20 hoop-shaped swings suspended from a white shade structure light up when in use, glowing purple with vigorous motion. Its creators at Höweler + Yoon Architecture had imagined people would swing in ones and twos. Instead groups tried to pile on together, hoping to share the sway and have a conversation. Susannah Walker, co-founder of the newly created British charity Make Space for Girls, saw in Swing Time something that would have delighted her 17-year-old self.  “At the end of the summer holidays my friend and I ran out of money,” Walker wrote in a March post. “We had nothing to do and there was nowhere to go. So we’d go and hang out on the swings in the early evening and chat as the light slowly faded into dusk. It was better than sitting around at home.” She highlights Swing Time to illustrate two points: One, girls love swings. And two, there aren’t enough swings made for teenage girls. “They are almost always placed with the equipment for younger children, so that if teenagers use them they are seen as invaders.” There also aren’t   enough spaces for teen girls. Where aren’t teenagers seen as invaders? They are too big, too loud, too old for playgrounds, at least in the eyes of parents; and too young, too loud, too broke for restaurants, bars and stores. The problem is magnified for teen girls who, surveys show, are less likely to use the basketball courts and skate parks intended for adolescents, and run the risk of harassment, or worse, when they appear in adult spaces. What do teen girls want? Many say they want hangout spots with cozy round tables and art or games that foster interaction, not competition. They want gyms and roller rinks and skate parks where they can try and fail without judgement or catcalls. They want to listen to music outdoors without having to pay for a festival ticket. Making space for girls means rethinking which age groups need to swing and climb, how to encourage physical activity (and not just playing a sport), and how to make a safe, sheltered place for outdoor conversation, according to surveys. If there was such a place, “I’d probably just, like, talk a lot of crap about strangers,” says Tamia Johnson, 18, a member of Territory Teens Breaking Boundaries, a leadership group organized by Territory, a Chicago nonprofit that offers hands-on urban design studios for teenagers in disenfranchised communities. “Have a genuine conversation without having an adult sitting there judging our conversation.” “I miss the tire swing in our old park,” adds Victoria Norrington, 18. “Tamia, you remember?” “Being 18 is literally just being considered an ‘adult’ but still being treated like a child,” says Johnson. To Walker, Swing Time seems like one element in a solution to these complaints: big enough for adolescent bodies, close enough for conversation, fun enough to appeal to a desire for thrills. Luckily, she now has the capacity to do something about it, by linking public health research to planning policy, and design ideas to equitable outcomes. Make Space for Girls, a newly registered British charity, hopes to start surveying teens, and perhaps create some temporary spaces to linger, as soon as this summer. The idea for Make Space for Girls came to Walker when she read Caroline Criado Perez’s book Invisible Women: Exposing Data Bias in a World Designed for Men. “In the book there’s a very small section on parks, saying there’s a holy trinity of equipment primarily used by boys” — namely skate parks, BMX tracks and multi-use games areas. The U.K. Equality Act 2010 sets out a public sector equality duty, requiring public projects to consider race, disability and gender when spending public funds. “I was a lawyer for many years, and I can’t help seeing things from a legal perspective,” says Imogen Clark, Make Space for Girls’ other co-founder. Leaning on that law, Clark and Walker believe parks funders should be thinking about equity from the beginning of the process, identifying activities that are female-dominated, requesting design features that encourage girls’ presence and participation, and offering programming that balances arts, sports and free play. “There is one type of masculinity that skate parks and pump tracks cater to, but they are missing a whole other type of boy and a whole lot of girls.” Walker and Clark point to research by Swedish firm White Arkitekter, which shows that boys over the age of 8 use parks four times as much as girls. Another 2020 survey, by the Girl Guides, Britain’s equivalent of the Girl Scouts, notes that more than 40% of girls ages 11 to 21 said they feel unsafe outdoors. Surveys of skate parks — a play infrastructure cities often add explicitly to serve teens — show the vast majority of users are male. The framework for this research comes from pioneering work by the Urban Planning Group in Vienna, led by Eva Kail, which began designing a city for women back in the 1990s. The redesign of that city’s Einsiedler Park to add more exits, an elevated platform for seating and conversation, and a play court without goal posts and foul lines, remains one of few built examples of physical changes made for equity. That said, Make Space for Girls recognizes that it is not only girls who would benefit from a wider diversity of public space offerings for teenagers. “The reality is much more complicated,” Clark says. “There is one type of masculinity that skate parks and pump tracks cater to, but they are missing a whole other type of boy and a whole lot of girls.” Rebecca Rubin, an architect at White Arkitekter, has been working on girl-centric public projects for the past six years. “The basic principle is that you have to know the actual place. Put effort and money into spaces they already use rather than trying to move them to another part of the city,” she says. After that, consider the cost of hanging out — where can girls sit for a long time and spend little money? Often the answer, even in Sweden, is McDonalds: inexpensive, anonymous, sheltered from the elements, like the suburban malls that are more often portrayed as teen spaces. Lastly, consider activity: While lack of activity among teens is a major public health issue, many girls are looking for more creative, less competitive ways of moving their bodies. “It doesn’t have to be a football [soccer] field,” Rubin says. “It could also be a dance court. It could also be a biking hub.” One recent project combines design for hanging out with a physical lure: a second-story shade structure reached by climbing wall in Hasselnöten, a development in the Swedish city of Upplands Väsby. MUF, an architecture and art practice in London, has also been working on a number of open space designs for public housing in the London boroughs of Hackney and Newham in consultation with youth groups. For Tower Court, a public housing estate in Hackney, MUF designed a series of playable bridges which cross long channels planted with trees and which are intended to absorb rainwater between the long residential blocks. Each bridge is slightly different, encouraging children to explore the courtyards. They also provide elevated vantage points. “One of the things about teens is, to make good spaces they don’t necessarily have a big sign that says, ‘Come here, teenage girls,’” jokes Liza Fior, one of MUF’s founding partners. “During Covid, teenage girls have taken over Trafalgar Square and the steps of the National Gallery. There are no tourists, and that’s where they are to be found.” In other projects, MUF has inserted hammocks, lounge chairs and, yes, swings, into the pathways between home and park. “This time of developing your social ties is so important,” she says. “We are trying to give them open-ended-ness, give them some freedom in the city.” In July, the newly formed WIP Collaborative will unveil what they describe as an “inclusive landscape” in Manhattan’s Hudson Square: “Restorative Ground” is an 80-foot-long, poppy-colored and rubberized piece of street furniture that combines ramps, steps, nets, tabletops and rails. “Being able to offer a healthy social option for those teenagers who might not be into sports, a way to meet people and connect that is more open ended is really important,” says Bryony Roberts, one of the seven independent women designers who created the collective. While the piece is intended to attract all ages, “Restorative Ground” includes many of the features other designers working with teens highlight: lounge-like seating for groups, a sense of enclosure while maintaining visibility for safety, and playable but not kiddish elements, like the hammock and rails. Alas, no swings. By the end of our chat, the Territory teens also want to form an all-female planning group to work out some of their ideas. “Even as a girl I always just accepted that most public spaces are male-dominated or adjusted to the male gaze, but I never even thought about trying to challenge these public spaces to find ways that I can make myself more comfortable,” says Paris Smith, 17. “Territory could think of ideas for teen girls that could help alleviate any tensions or discomfort that girls go through.” An all-girl space would give “the clarity to know you aren’t crazy,” says Johnson. “Your opinions do matter.”