China says it saw only 119 cases of adverse events for every million doses of Covid-19 vaccines administered -- a rate that’s much lower than that reported for some western vaccines, although there’s little information on how the incidents were tracked, categorized and collated in the Asian country. As many as 31,434 adverse events were reported out of 265 million shots given over the four and half month period starting mid-December last year, China’s Center of Disease Prevention and Control said in a statement Friday. Abnormal reactions accounted for about 17% of total incidents reported while milder side effects such as fever and soreness from injection accounted for the rest. The data, while noteworthy as it provides the first glimpse into adverse events from Chinese vaccines, has little detail, making it hard to compare this with adverse incidents reported from western vaccines. The CDC did not release information on how the incidents were tracked, reported and evaluated in China and if people self-reported these effects or they were collated by health workers. What’s the Best Covid Vaccine? Why It’s Not So Simple: QuickTake The U.K. reported that more than one out of 10 people experienced post-vaccination effects such as fatigue, headache, nausea and fever. from Covid vaccines made by Pfizer Inc., Moderna Inc. and Astrazeneca Plc. In a January report submitted to the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System in the U.S., adverse events were recorded 0.03% of the time for Moderna’s Covid shots while a December report to the same tracker showed such incidents occurred 0.2% of the times for Pfizer’s vaccine. Abnormal reactions include damage to organs and serious allergic reactions post inoculation, China’s CDC explained in a separate statement. Only 188 were deemed severe among the 5,356 adverse reports in China. “Both the normal side effects and abnormal reactions of the Covid-19 vaccines have been found at a lower level than other vaccines China administered in 2019,” CDC said. “The rate of abnormal reactions is very, very low.” Five vaccines, including two by state-owned maker Sinopharm and one from Sinovac Biotech Ltd., were greenlit for use in the months covered by this report -- mid-December to end-April -- but the government data doesn’t break down the adverse events by specific shots. — With assistance by Claire Che, and Dong Lyu